
Hall, with Co -Chairperson, Jean Lowenstein  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 Dwight Havens   
 Stephen Grandeau   
 William Smith   
 Frank Mazza   
 Ronald Bormann   
 Jean Loewenstein   
  
Absent:     
John Viola   
Kyle Kordich   
Leejun Taylor   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Chairperson Loewenstein  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
 
 
 
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
23-01 & 23 -01A 2272 Route 9 Senior Apartments  Site Plan and Special 
Use Permit  
24-01 Quick -Serve Restaurant  FBC Project Plan   
24-02 Quick -Serve Restaurant  Special Use Permit  
24-03 Quick Serve Restaurant  Minor Subdivision  
 
 
 
 
Chairperson Loewenstein  elevated William Smith to a full voting member.  
 
 
 21-16 Mountain View Meadows, Major Subdivision (Extension of Approval)        
 
Doug Flynn from Lansing Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant.  
 
Flynn requested an Extension of Approval for the project since it still needed approval from the NYSDEC for sewer and 
water approval from the Clifton Park Water Authority and the NYSDOH.  
 
Loewenstein asked Huizinga if she had any comments for the Board.  
 
Huizinga noted that the requested extension wo uld be a standard 90 Day extension beyond the current expiration of 
March 20, 2024 to June 18, 2024.  
 
Loewenstein informed Flynn that if an additional extension were required beyond the current requested extension, the 
applicant would need to apply for an Extension of Approval beyond June 18, 2024 by the April 26, 2024 Planning Board 
deadline to be placed on the May 29, 2024 Planning Board agenda.  
 
Resolution #202 4 – 01 
 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Frank Mazza  to resolve that the Malta Planni ng Board on the 27th day of  
February , 2024  approves a 90 -day Extension of Approval for Project #21 -16 Mountain View Estates, Major Subdivision 
extending the expiration date of March 20, 2024 to June 18 , 2024.  
 
VOTE:
 
Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES; Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES; William Smith – YES; Jean Loewenstein – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
 
23-01 & 23 -01A, 2272 Route 9 Senior Apartments , Site Plan and Special Use Permit              (SUP Public Hearing ) 
 
Doug Flynn from Lansing Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant.  Flynn noted that the project had last been 
before the Planning Board in May 2023 for final preliminary review. Flynn added that the Public Hearing  for the Special 
Use Permit had been  opened and left open until a later date. Flynn reviewed the project for the Planning Board to refresh 
their memories on it.  
 
Flynn detailed the provided outdoor amenities that would be included onsite and stated that there would be a gazebo 
and trails add ed that were not included on the initial project plans. Flynn added that the project’s SWPPP was reviewed 
and received a technical signoff letter from LaBella Associates . Flynn also added that he was working with Saratoga 
Water Services to extend the water  district to the site, that sewer would be provided by Saratoga County Sewer, and that 
there was the potential for future development onsite behind the proposed building.  
 
Huizinga spoke for the Planning Department and noted that since the project was first presented, the parcel experienced 
a zoning change from being split between C -9 and R -1 to being entirely C -9. Huizinga added that she felt the project was 
consistent with  the Town -Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings for SEQRA.  Huizinga also added  that she felt the project 
could be approved with the following conditions:  
1. Relocate the sidewalk along Route 9 so that it would be in the Right of Way per a NYSDOT request  
2. Add a m ap note on the Site Plan that identified the materials and construction details of the nature trails.  
3. Provide wetlands correspondence and/or permit prior to sign off of final plans.  
4. Add a Post Construction Operation and Maintenance cost analysis for stormw ater management practices to the 
SWPPP  
5. Provide documentation of the extension of the water district from Saratoga Water Services prior to building 
permit issuance.  
 
Loewenstein asked Reuben Hull of LaBella Associates  if he had any comments related to Engin eering.  
 
Hull noted that he had signed off on the January 11, 2024 submission for the project but concurred with Huizinga about her comments related to the Post Construction Operation and Maintenance Cost Analysis for stormwater management 
practices. Hull asked Huizinga when the request from DOT came in for the relocation of the sidewalk.  
 
Huizinga noted that she spoke with DOT about a different project and they mentioned they wanted the sidewalk 
relocated.  
 
Hull asked if he could perform a cursory review of the final plans with the sidewalk in the Right of Way (ROW).  
 
Loewenstein asked why DOT asked to have the sidewalk relocated.  
 
Huizinga  stated that the sidewalk was the DOT’s responsibility from a liability perspective.  
 
Loewenstein  asked Huizin ga who would maintain the sidewalk . 
 
Huizinga  stated that t he Town has a law  that states it is the responsibility of the landowner of the property the sidewalk is 
in front of  whether it is on their property or within the ROW.  
 
Havens asked Hull  how much wa ter was available for fire suppression . 
 
Hull noted that he wasn’t sure but that a Will Serve Letter had been received and signed.  
 
Flynn  noted that a pressure flow test had been completed that stated there was more than enough flow for the project.  
 
Havens  requested that the exact numbers be placed on the final plans for the project  
 
Hull noted that he would also like to see the exact numb ers for fire suppression.  
 
Mazza  asked if the access to the site was Right in Right out and if it would have a median or not.  
 
Flynn  noted that it would be a full access with no median unless otherwise requested by the DOT.  
 
Mazza  requested that there be n o median if the entrance became Right in Right out only.  
 
Huizinga  added that the plans did not show a raised median for the access.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Loewenstein reopened the Public Hearing  at 6:51  PM. 
 
No comments were received from the public.  
 
Loewenstein closed the Public Hearing  at 6:52  PM. 
 
Resolution #202 4 – 02 
SEQRA  
 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Jean Loewenstein  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 27th  
day of February , 202 4 determines that Project # 23-01, 2272 Route 9 Senior Apartments, Site Plan , and Project #23 -01A 
2272 Route 9 Senior Apartments, Special Use Permit, are consistent with the Supplemental Town Wide GEIS and 
Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA  review is required.    
 
VOTE:    
 
Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES; Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES; William Smith – YES; Jean Loewenstein – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 SPECIAL USE PERMIT CRITERIA  
 
1. Is the use listed as a permitted special use in the appropriate zoning district;  
 
Yes. C -9 zoning identifies Senior Multifamily Dwelling Use as a specially permitted use.  
 
2. Conforms to the standards and design requirements specified in the Code and the Master Plan for that 
partic ular zone;   
 
The proposed use conforms with the Comprehensive Master Plan, Neighborhood 3 Route 9  
South /Route 67 East 2016 update, and Commercial Corridor Design Standards & Guidelines.   
 
3. Will not have an undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of the neighborhood and 
surrounding area s, traffic conditions, parking, utility facilities, or other mat ters affecting the public health, safety, 
welfare or convenience of the public;   
 
The use is consistent with the Master Plan and Neighborhood 3 Route 9  South/Route 67 East 2016 
update.  The proposed use provides sufficient parking ; water and sewer  service s will be extended 
to the project.  The Town engineer concurs with the traffic trip generation report (9/26/2023 
LaBella correspondence).  
 
4. Will not create operations or uses that will be considered objectionable to nearby properties by reason of noise, 
fume s, vibrations, illumination or other outward effects on others in the zone . 
 
The proposed use should not create any objectionable operations.   
 
5. Complies with any other requirements within the zone;  
 
Yes. The proposed use conforms with the Comprehensive Master Plan, Neighborhood 3 Route 9  
South /Route 67 East 2016 update, and Commercial Corridor Design Standards & Guidelines.   
 
6. Will be in harmony and promote the general purpose and intent of the Master Plan;  
 
The use is consistent with the M aster Plan and Neighborhood 3 Route 9  South/ Route 67 East 
2016 update.  
 
7. Will not adversely affect the short -term and long -term cumulative impacts on the environment;  
 
The proposed use/project impacts 0.066 acre of ACOE wetlands.  A wetlands disturbance pe rmit 
is required.  
 
8. Will be able to mitigate to the satisfaction of the Board any adverse or irreversible impacts on the environment, 
including any growth -inducing aspects of the proposed use;  
 
The project is subject to the Supplemental Town Wide Generic Environmental Impact  Statement  
(GEIS)  mitigation fees such as traffic, open space and GEIS prep fees.  
 
9. Will not adversely affect unique and irreplaceable assets or resources of the area;  
 
The proposed plan will not impact rare plants or endangered species.  Applicant received  no 
impact correspondence from SHPO (2/1/2024).  
 
 10. Will be serviced adequately (as determined by the Board) by essential public facilities and services, including, 
but not limited to, highways, streets, parking spaces, public transportation, police, ambulance and fire 
protection, drainage structures, solid waste management and refuse disposal, water and sewers, groundwater 
protection, schools, energy conservation, as well as any other additional services as the Board deems 
appropriate.  
 
Yes. Will serv e correspondence has been received from Saratoga Water Services and Saratoga 
County Sewer District.  The project is located in the Round Lake Fire Department and Malta -
Stillwater EMS.  
 
Resolution #202 4 – 03 
 
MOTION  by Frank Mazza  SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 27th  day of 
February , 202 4 approves Project # 23-01A 2272 Route 9 Senior Apartments, Special Use Permit , as presented :  
 
VOTE:    
 
Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES; Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES; William Smith – YES; Jean Loewenstein – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
 
Resolution #202 4 – 04 
 
MOTION  by Ronald Bormann  SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 27th  day 
of February, 2024  approves  Project # 23-01, 2272 Route 9 Senior Apartments, Site Plan , with the following conditions : 
 
1. Relocate the sidewalk along Route 9 so that it is placed within the  Right of Way as requested by NYSDOT.  
2. Sidewalk relocation plan to be reviewed by the Town Designated Engineer.  
3. Provide nature trail materials and construction details to the site plan  
4. Provide wetlands correspondence and/or permit prior to sign off of final  plans.  
5. Add a Post Construction Operation and Maintenance cost analysis for Stormwater Management Practices to the 
SWPPP  
6. Provide documentation of the extension of the water district from Saratoga Water Services prior to building 
permit issuance.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES; Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES; William Smith – YES; Jean Loewenstein – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
 
 
24-01, Quick -Serve Restaurant, Form Based Code Project Plan (Concept)         Public Hearing  
24-02, Quick -Serve Restaurant, Special Use Permit (Concept)                           
24-03, Quick -Serve Restaurant, Minor Subdivision (Concept)         
 
Tim Freitag from Bohler Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant.  
 
Freitag stated that he was presenting for three applications for the project; one for a Form Based Co de Project Plan, the 
second for a Special Use Permit  (SUP) , and the third for a minor subdivision. Freitag n oted that the project was before the 
Planning Board for initial comments before it went before the Zoning Board of Appeals to acquire the variances needed 
for the project. Freitag also noted that once the necessary variances were obtained for the project, he would return to the 
Planning Board for final project approval.  
 Freitag noted that the  project site is in the Nigro Plaza  aka Shops of Malta  in front of Market 32. Freitag also noted that 
the site would be created by subdividing an existing 4.63 -acre lot. The subdivision  (SD) would be for three (3) lots , that 
would be broken down into  Lot #1 (the project site) which would be 1.02± acres , Lot #2  a vacant site containing  1.26 + 
acres, and Lot #3 a 2.35 + acre lot which would contain  the existing Berkshire B ank and vacant lands.  
 
Freitag detailed the project, the proposed restaurant would be 2 650+ SF with a two-lane drive -thru, 21 parking spaces, a 
bypass lane around the drive -thru, and a circula tion lane to allow traffic to navigate  to the parking lot from the drive -thru 
lane.  Freitag noted that the property had a unique geometry, stating that it was deep and narrow , making the frontage for 
the site on Kendall Way instead of Route 9. Freitag also noted that the site would feature 2 access points, the main 
entrance/exit closer to the Nigro Plaza perimeter road on Kendall Way with an additional exit that would be a rig ht-turn 
only lane to send traffic to Route 9 via Kendall Way.  
 
Freitag added that the project would not feature access directly to Route 9 given the site’s close proximity to the nearby 
intersection . Freitag also added that the site would connect to public  utilities and that there is a water main easement 
that goes through the property along the Route 9 side of the site, preventing any structural construction in that area.  
 
Freitag also described the variances that would be applied for. The required varianc es included: Build to Zone with the 
primary street along Kendall Way, maximum front setback to Kendall Way, onsite parking between the proposed building 
and the street, and the drive -thru lane between the proposed building and the street.  
 
Freitag stated t hat he was before the Board for preliminary feedback before he returns for a SUP and subdivision 
determination and for feedback to take to the Zoning Board of Appeals for the requested variances. Freitag also detailed 
the design of the proposed building an d how  it improved  upon the stock style for the chain with  a two-tone brick façade , a 
stone water table design , tall windows, and a parapet with crown molding.  
 
Huizinga spoke for the Planning Department . Huizinga stated that the proposed restaurant use was allowed in the 
Downtown Mixed -Use, FBC DX -3 zone . Huizinga added that the drive -thru, however, would need a Special Use Permit 
(SUP). Huizinga also added that FBC Project Plan applications are approved  administratively, but that the Planning Board 
has purview over the Subdivision (SD) and SUP aspects of the project.  
 
Huizinga stated for the Board that the proposed SD plat would need to be modified due to a mistake made by the 
applicant’s surveyor. Huizi nga noted that the survey was not an accurate description of the entire property that included 
the portion of the lot land hooked  on the opposite side of Kendall Way where the Berkshire Bank is located. Huizinga also 
noted that this made the proposed SD a 3 lot SD instead of a 2 lot SD.  
 
Loewen stein asked Huizinga if the North side of Kendall way was included in the entire parcel.  
 
Huizinga confirmed that the entire parcel included both sides of Kendall Way.  
 
Huizinga added that her comments for the FBC Project Plan (PP) related to how the proposed design diverged from Form 
Based Code (FBC) regulations with how the applicant wanted the building further away from the road than allowed and 
wanted parking between the building and the road.  
 
Huizinga echoed F reitag’s comments about Kendall Way being designated as the primary street  for the site given that 
there is a utility easement onsite that prevent s the construction of the building closer to Route 9. Huizinga added that 
since the applicant couldn’t build c loser to the Northeast corner of the site or closer to Route 9 due to the utility 
easement, Code Enforcement determined that a “Build to Zone” variance was not needed for Route 9.  
 
Huizinga also noted that both she and the fire department wanted the exit l ane from the drive -thru aligned with the 
Berkshire Bank access road, that the applicant proposed on -street parking as defined in the FBC regulations, and that 
the applicant was proposing 27 parking spaces in total, which is more than the required 14.  
 
Huizinga recommended that the applicant should reduce the amount of proposed onsite parking given that the Nigro 
Plaza  aka Shops of Malta  parking lot was less than 600 feet from the site and to allow the building to be closer to the 
road. Huizinga also noted t hat final landscaping and lighting plan s would need to be submitted once the location and 
layout of the site was finalized, and that an outdoor amenity space measuring  at least 8800 SF in total is needed 
somewhere onsite either as one area or multiple throughout the site.  Huizinga noted that a traffic assessment report had been received by Planning and that it was going to be reviewed by 
Engineering. Huizinga added that she wanted Engineering to review the traffic assessment prior to SUP review . 
 
Huizinga reiterated the variances  required for the project to proceed as proposed to  the Board:  
1. Primary street build to zone on Kendall Way,  
2. primary street setback  from Kendall Way ,  
3. parking between the building and Kendall Way , and  
4. the drive -thru la ne between the building and Kendall Way . 
 
Huizinga noted that she wanted site specific renderings that provided the actual dimensions for the site and stated for 
the Board that the applicant did change the stock design of the restaurant to better match the  character of Downtown 
Malta.  
 
Huizinga added that she felt it was too early to review SUP criteria and that the current meeting was the time for the 
Board to bring up their concerns or questions for the applicant before they returned at a later date.  
 
Reuben Hull, LaBella Associates,  spoke for Engineering and noted that there were multiple commonalities  between his 
review letter and Huizinga’s comments. Hull noted that he did not make many comments on the traffic assessment 
report since it was likely th e project would change once it had been presented to the Zoning Board. Hull added that 
Engineering would make more detailed comments once the project had been updated after Zoning Board review.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Havens wanted the applicant to pay close a ttention to the Malta Ridge FD comments regarding site access and hydrant 
locations . Havens added that he wanted the applicant to install  a hydrant onsite for fire suppression if possible.  
 
Mazza asked the applicant if they planned on moving the building closer to Kendall Way.  
 
Freitag  stated that the applicant did not and preferred to pursue the requested variance. Freitag added that the applicant 
did not want the building so close to Kendal l Way because they were concerned that the business needed to be built with 
the proposed layout in order to be financially viable and for concerns of pedestrian safety.  
 
Freitag felt that the current master plan for the Nigro Plaza did not allow sufficient  vehicle stacking onsite for the 
proposed use and felt that it endangered pedestrians accessing the restaurant by making them cross the drive -thru lane 
that would be between the restaurant and the parking lot.  
 
Mazza suggested that the applicant should design their layout similar to the McDonald’s on Route 67 given that they 
have no safety issues with a drive -thru lane that crosses the parking lot.  
 
Freitag added that the applicant’s proposal provided the best balance for the site because he felt the master plan for the 
Plaza was inefficient with regards to circulation. Freitag noted  that the current master plan created a dead end onsite 
where it would be difficult for someone to turn around if there were no parking available.   
 
Freitag also added that it was his intention to work with the Planning Board to find a compromise that allowed for his 
applicant to create their vision while conforming as much as possible to FBC regulations by utilizing visual buffers to 
block the view of the drive -thru lan e to the road.  
 
Grandeau asked Freitag if the plan could be changed to allow the drive -thru lane to avoid onsite parking entirely.  
Freitag felt that any other layout wouldn’t provide enough parking for the business to be successful  
 
Grandeau suggested that  there was more than enough parking with what already existed in the Plaza and with the 
proposed on -street parking and onsite parking that wouldn’t be affected by the drive -thru lane.  
 
Freitag felt that the parking spaces further away from the restaurant w ould discourage potential customers from utilizing 
the restaurant and it would therefore make the site financially unviable for the restaurant.  
 
Mazza and Grandeau suggested that the site may not be the right location for the proposed restaurant if it need ed to disregard the Form Based Code regulations in order to be successful.  
 
Grandeau asked Freitag to provide other site layout options in addition to the layout being currently proposed before they 
request that the Planning Board make a decision on projec t approval.  
 
Freitag stated that other options that reduced the number of parking spaces to allow for a drive -thru that better matched 
what the Planning Board was envisioning would be possible but less than ideal.  
 
Grandeau stated that even with the curren t proposal there were parking spaces that were further away than what the 
ideal was for Freitag and the applicant.  
 
Freitag reiterated that the applicant felt there needed to be more parking closer to the building in order for it to be 
successful given tha t the restaurant was a “convenience” type restaurant.  
 
Grandeau asked for the number of proposed seats inside the restaurant.  
 
Freitag stated that there were 46 seats proposed.  
 
Grandeau noted that he did not remember ever seeing 46 people in the current restaurant.  
 
Freitag stated that the increased parking was to accommodate mobile to -go ordering which accounted for up to 30% of 
sales.  Freitag asked the Board if they had any suggestions or recommendations for the applicant.  
 
Bormann stated that h e liked the on -street parking.  
 
Grandeau asked if the building could be reconfigured to the Southwest corner of the parcel.  
 
Freitag noted that the Subdivision being proposed did not include the area that Grandeau was denoting but that if it were 
part of t he site, it would not allow for proper stacking in the drive -thru.  
 
Smith stated that he wanted to see fire apparatus turning Radii on future plan submission s and wanted the applicant to 
consider potentially installing 2 hydrants  onsite . 
 
Freitag stated th at he would provide the requested information.  
 
Hull noted that he also wanted to see fire apparatus turning radii and delivery truck turning radii as well to make sure 
they could safely and efficiently access the site.  
 
Freitag stated that he would provid e the requested documentation.  
 
Loewenstein stated that she wanted to see a resubmission with the building closer to the road with less onsite parking 
and more dependence on the on -street parking. Loewenstein noted that this would minimize the applicant’s variance 
request.  Loewenstein also asked the applicant to line the drive -thru exit onto Kendall Way with the access road to the 
Berkshire Bank across the street.  
 
Freitag noted Loewenstein’s comments.  
 
Loewenstein asked  Huizinga to confirm what the Board’s  role was with the three applications being presented.  
 
Huizinga stated that the Project Plan aspect would be approved/disapproved administratively by Planning staff and that 
the Board had purview over the Special Use Permit and the Subdivision applications. Huizinga added that the Board was 
encouraged to comment on the Project Plan even though the  final decision is rendered  administratively.  
 
Loewenstein asked Freitag if he wanted the Public Hearing for the project opened yet or not.  
 
Freitag stated that he wanted to wait to open the Public Hearing until after the project went before the Zoning Board of 
Appeals.  Loewenstein asked Everhart if the Board could wait to open the Public Hearing until after the project went before the 
ZBA.  
 
Everhart stated that since the Project Plan Public Hearing was scheduled for that night, it would need to be opened and 
left open if the Board preferred. Everhart added that the Special Use Permit and Subdivision Public Hearings could wait 
until a later date.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Loewenstein opened the Project Plan Public Hearing  at 7:45 PM.  
 
No comments were received from the public.  
 
Loewenstein left the Project Plan Public Hearing  open until a later date.  
 
Freitag noted that he would a ddress the Planning Board’s comments and return with more options and asked if they had 
any other comments.  
 
Loewenstein noted that she wanted to see a more defined landscaping plan.  
 
Hull added that he wanted to see the drive -thru exit near the Berkshire Bank access be engineered  as a Right -Out only  in 
order to prevent drivers from attempting to make a left turn or from attempting to use the lan e as an entrance.  
 
Freitag stated that he would confirm that the suggestion made by Engineering were possible with site circulation and 
asked Hull if he could move forward with traffic review to confirm there were no concerns from the NYSDOT.  
 
Hull asked w hen the applicant would go before the ZBA.  
 
Huizinga confirmed that the applicant would be presented to the ZBA on March 5th, 2024.  
 
Smith asked if the roof mounted mechanicals depicted on the renderings would be visible from the road.  
 
Freitag stated that they would not be visible from the road.  
 
Meeting Adjournment  
 
Stephen Grandeau  MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct  of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Jean Loewenstein , motion carried unanimously at 7:50 PM . 
 
Respectfully submitted by,  
 
 
 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary  
Planning Technicia n 