
The Town of Malta Planning Board held its regular meeting on Wednes day May 29 , 2024  at 6:30 p.m. at the 
Malta Town Hall, with Co -Chairperson, Jean Loewenstein  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 Dwight Havens   
 William Smith   
 Ronald Bormann   
 Stephen Grandeau   
 Jean Loewenstein   
 Frank Mazza   
 Kyle Kordich (LATE)   
  
Absent:     
 
John Viola   
Leejun Taylor   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Chairperson Loewenstein  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
 
 
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
23-17 Rainville (Extension of Approval)  Minor Subdivision  
21-18 4 Old Stonebreak Warehouse  Site Plan  
24-11 Windstone Farm (386 Brownell Road)  Special Use Permit  
 
 
 
Chairperson Loewenstein  elevated William Smith  to a full voting member.  
 
 23-17, Rainville  (Extension of Approval), Minor Subdivision                     
 
Maria Rainville presented.  Rainville noted that her delays were related to water and sewer.  
 
Floria Huizinga  spoke for the Planning Department and  noted that the Planning Board could grant an 
unlimited number of 90 -day extensions . Huizinga added  that the current expiration of July 18, 2024 would be 
extended to October 21, 2024 if the Board agreed to grant an additional extension. Huizinga also noted  that 
the only barriers to the project moving forward were related to “will serve”  letters being received for water and 
sewer.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Grandeau asked if Rainville had met all conditions that were required  at the previous meeting.  
 
Huizinga confirmed that all the requested conditions had been met other than “will serve” letters for water for 
both properties and sewer for the front property.  
 
Resolution #2024 – 14 
 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Frank Mazza  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 
25th day of June , 2024 approves a 90 -day Extension of Approval for Project #2 3-17 Rainville, Minor  
Subdivision extending the expiration date of July 23 , 2024 to October 21 , 2024.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES; Frank Mazza  – YES;  
Dwight Havens  – YES; William Smith  – YES; Jean Loewenstein  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
 
21-18, 4 Old Stonebreak Road Warehouse , Site Plan                                     
 
Dave Kimmer of ABD Engineers presented for the applicant.  Kimmer noted that the proposed building would 
be a 20,700 SF warehouse. Kimmer also noted that the project had been b efore the Planning Board several 
times in the past  and that the o nly change since  the last presentation was the removal of a loading bay on the 
West side of the building. Kimmer stated that the remaining t wo bays were along the East side of the building 
where truck traffic would be conveyed. Kimmer stated  that he was i nterested in condition al approval and  was 
willing to answer questions  from the Board.  see tape…  
 
Huizinga  noted that the presentation was last before the Board in April 2022, that the project site was in PDD 
#9 on Old Stonebreak Road. Huizing a added that the project site was the last lot to be developed  on Old 
Stonebreak Road , next to S aratoga Water Services  and behind  11 Stonebreak Road. 
 
Huizinga also added that the project was consistent with Supplemental Town -Wide GEIS and did not require 
further review. Huizinga noted that PDD #9 did not have bulk setback or lot size requirements and that what 
the applicant was proposing would be the setbacks for the property. Huizinga noted that the property was  
technically a corner lot because it is located on a curve and therefore ha s no rear setback . Huizinga detailed 
the setbacks for the property as 19 feet minimum and 69 feet maximum for the West , 19 feet min. and 35 
feet max. for the North, and 8 feet min. and 10 max for the South.   
 
 
 Huizinga noted that the  building would be gray with blue trim, and requested that the applicant consider 
changing some of the façade of the building in order to ma ke it fit in better with the character of the 
neighborhood. Huizinga also requested that the landscaping around the building should be more robust .  
Huizinga added that she needed a  photometric plan and cut sheets for lighting.  Huizinga also added that the  
Board could consider project approval but that there were still concerns that needed to be addressed 
including engineering comments, the requested lighting plans and the requested façade change s. 
 
Kyle Kordich arrived at 6:40 PM.  
 
Reuben Hull of LaBella A ssociates  noted that his comments were limited to Highway and Fire department 
review . Hull noted that the length  of the fire access and sprinkler systems needed to be reviewed by the Fire 
department prior to sign off, and that he wanted to see more pavemen t at the access onto Stonebreak Road 
to prevent trucks from going onto the gravel shoulder of the driveway pavement and  rutting up the gravel 
shoulder up as time went on. Hull also noted that the project onsite stormwater management  design does not 
require a SPDES permit from DEC.  Hull did not take exception to the applicant’s methodology and design of 
the proposed stormwater management  since all discharges would be onsite.  Hull advised the applicant that 
long term maintain of the stormwater management areas  would still need to be maintained as if the project 
obtained a SPDES  permit for over an acre of disturbance.  Hull added that he wanted to make sure that there 
was a mechanism in place to make sure the applicant maintained the st ormwater facilities like they would be 
if they required a  SPDES  permit.   Huizinga noted that the applicant would need a soil disturbance permit from 
the Town and file a stormwater maintenance agreement.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Grandeau asked Kimmer if the appli cant was willing to make the façade more aesthetic with a brick design 
and more landscaping to make it have more continuity with other buildings nearby.  
 
Bormann wanted to see an updated rendering with the brick façade.  
 
Mazza also wanted to see a façade similar to others in the neighborhood on the building prior to approval.  
 
Kimmer stated that the applicant most likely would be amenable to those requests.  
 
Smith wanted the applicant to make sure the truck -turning radius would be completely on asph alt and not 
gravel.  
 
Kordich echoed the rest of the Board’s comments.  
 
Loewenstein asked if the warehouse would meet building height and greenspace requirements for the PDD.  
 
Huizinga stated that the updated rendering indicates the building met the zoning  height requirements  of 
maximum 30 feet  and that the Luther Forest PDD #9 did not have greenspace requirements but that the 
proposal was consistent with other buildings in the neighborhood.  
 
Kimmer noted that the proposed greenspace percentage of the site was approximately 28%.  
 
Hull clarified his earlier statement about truck -turning radii and stated that he felt that a semi -truck (tractor -
trailer) would have challenges maneuvering the site without making the paved area larger given different 
sized tr ucks and drivers accessing the site at different angles . Hull was concerned that trucks would 
potentially drive in the gravel area and rut the area up due to the weight of the trucks.  
 
Loewenstein asked Hull about a previous concern about the Northwest acc ess and sight distances.  Hull noted that the concern was eliminated with the removal of the loading bay on the Western side of the 
proposed warehouse.  
 
Loewenstein noted that she felt the applicant should address the comments made by Planning, Engineering 
and the Board before moving forward to approval with the project. Loewenstein asked the Board how they felt 
regarding approval.  
 
The Board agreed that the applicant should make the requested changed and come back at a later date.  
 
Everhart asked the Board if they had any other requests for the applicant prior to moving forward with project 
approval.  
 
Loewenstein asked Kimmer to clarify if a photometric plan had been submitted to Planning.  
 
Kimmer noted that one had yet to be submitted.  
 
Project approv al was postponed until a later date.  
 
24-11, Windstone Farm (386 Brownell Road, Special Use Permit                       Public Hearing  
 
Stephanie Farradino  presented on behalf of the applicant. Farradino  noted that the p roperty  was purchased 
several years ago , that it is zoned  R5, is approximately  10.5 acres, cu rrently zoned  single family . Farradino  
stated that the goal of the project is to make a family compound for  the applicant’s family and parents. 
Farradino  stated that the e xisting structures would be connected with an enclosed breezeway to make a 
single two-family home.  Farradino  noted for the Board that the project site is zoning compliant  based on the 
Special Use Permit (SUP) criteria and that, if necessary, an upgraded septi c system or an additional septic 
system would be constructed based on the needs of the system.  Farradino  noted for the Board that the 
applicant wanted to have a statement from the Planning Board stating that the Special Use Permit ran with 
the land in whic h it is granted on so that the two-family residence could continue to be used as a two-family 
residence in the future.  
 
Huizinga noted that the zoning for the site is R5 residential agricultural and the two -family residential use is 
allowed. Huizinga also noted that a Public Hearing was needed, that the project was c onsistent with the 
Supplemental Town -Wide GEIS and no further environmental review was necessary . Huizinga added that Code 
Enforcement noted that the buildout of the second residence w ould determine the needed changes for the 
septic and that the connection between the two residences must be fully enclosed in order to be a code -
compliant two -family home.  
 
Everhart asked Huizinga if the enclosed hallway was the determining factor in making the proposed project a 
two-family residence.  
 
Huizinga confirmed that without the enclosed hallway there would be two (2) principal residences on -site, 
making them non -compliant within the R5 zone.  
 
Hull noted that he had no comments related to the project but that he felt the proposed project would 
maintain the rural character of the neighborhood.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Havens asked if there were two accesses to the site or only one. Havens added that the language in th e 
proposal was confusing and wanted clarification.  
 Farradino  clarified for Havens and stated that the site had one access via a shared driveway and that what 
was defined in the proposal as “two accesses” was to state that each building had its own means o f 
ingress/egress.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Loewenstein  opened the Public Hearing at  7:09 PM 
 
Ron Messen at 384 Brownell Road wanted to know if the barn -residence would be two stories or one and 
wanted to make sure that the upgraded/new septic system was designed to flow away from the onsite pond 
and lower lying areas on his property.  
 
Loewenstein noted that the septic would be designed to NYS designed standards.  
 
Huizinga stated that the septic would be required to be designed by an engineer and that the applicant did not 
currently know what the plan was for the design of the apartment.  
 
Loewenstei n closed the Public Hearing at 7:10  PM 
 
Farradino  noted that the intention of the new barn -apartment would have some living space on the first floor 
but with the majority of the living space on the second floor.  
 
SPECIAL USE PERMIT CRITERIA  
 
(1) Explain  how the proposed use is a permitted special use in the appropriate district. 
 
Town Code identifies two-family dwelling as  a specially permitted use in the R-5 zone. The minimum 
lot size required for a two -family use is 80,000 square feet (1.836± acres) and 200 feet of frontage.  
 
(2) Explain  how the proposed use will conform to the standards and design requirements  specified 
in the Code and the Master Plan for the particular zone. 
 
Two-family dwellings  are specially permitted within the R-5 zone. The minimum lot size required for 
a two -family use is 80,000 square feet (1.836± acres) and 200 feet of frontage.  
 
(3) Does the proposed use have an undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of the 
neighborhood and surrounding area, traffic conditions, parking, utility facilities,  or other matters 
affecting the public health, safety, welfare or convenience  of the public? 
 
The two -family home will likely not have an undue adverse impact on the neighborhood and adjacent 
property.  
 
(4) Does the proposed use create operations or uses that will be considered  objectionable to nearby 
properties by reason of noise, fumes, vibrations, illumination or other outward effects on others in the 
zone? 
 
The proposed two-family special use will not generate objectionable levels of noise, fumes, vibrations, 
illumination or other outward environmental effects to others in the R-5 zone. 
 
(5) Does the proposed use comply with all other municipal requir ements within  the zone? 
 
If granted, the special use permit will comply with all other municipal requirements within the zone.    
(6) Is the proposed use in harmony with, and promote the general purp ose and intent  of the Master 
Plan?  
 
According to the Master Plan, this parcel is located in Neighborhood 10, Brownell. This area is 
envisioned as residential and agriculture.  The proposed two -family special use is consistent with the 
character of this neighborhood.  
 
(7) Does the proposed use adversely affect the short-term and long-term cumulative impacts on the 
environment? 
 
There are no anticipated adverse short-term or long-term cumulative impacts to the environment. 
 
(8) Does the proposed use mitigate to the satisfaction of the Board any adverse or irreversible 
impacts on the environment, including any growth-inducing  aspects of the proposed use? 
 
There are no anticipated adverse or irreversible impacts to the environment.  
 
(9) Does the proposed use adversely affect the unique and irreplaceable assets or resources of the 
area? 
 
Minimal changes to the land are proposed to accommodate the breezeway connecting the house 
and barn. There are no known unique/ irreplaceable assets on this project site. 
 
(10) Is the proposed use serviced adequately by essential public facilities  and service, including, but 
not limited to: high ways, streets, parking spaces, public transportation, police, ambulance and fire 
protection, drainage structures,  solid waste management and refuse disposal, water and sewer, 
groundwater protection, schools, energy conservation, as well as other additional services?  
 
If the Planning Board considers approval of this special use permit, the applicant will submit a 
building permit to the Building Department for the proposed breezeway and interior work to be 
completed to convert the barn into living space.  At that time, t he Building Department will require 
engineered plans validating the usage and capacity of the septic system(s) according to NYS 
building code and NYSDOH requirements. Typically, a four -bedroom house requires a 1250 -gallon 
septic tank and a five -bedroom hou se requires a 1500 -gallon septic tank. If the existing system is 
not sufficient, then it will have to up graded according to aforementioned requirements in order to 
obtain a building permit for the proposed improvements.  
 
Resolution #2024 – 15 
SEQRA  
 
MOTION  by Jean Loewenstein  SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 
25th day of June , 2024 determines that Project # 24-11, Windstone Farm , Special Use Permit , is consistent 
with the Supplemental Town Wide GEIS and Statem ent of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is 
required.    
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  – YES; Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES;  
Frank Mazza  – YES; Dwight Havens  – YES; William Smith  – YES; Jean Loewenstein  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 7-0  
Farradino  asked the Board to include for the record that the Special Use Permit ran with the land . 
 
Everhart agreed to make the requested statement reflected in the minutes after the vote for project approval.  
 
Loewenstein also noted that the project would need to have a properly designed upgraded/new septic system 
prior to Building Permit Issuance.  
 
Farradino  noted that the existing system may be sufficient but that it needed to be evaluated prior to moving 
forward.  
 
Huizinga st ated that a Building Permit will not be issued without a n engineered designed and operating septic 
system onsite.  
 
Resolution #2024 – 16 
 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 
25th day of June , 2024 approves Project #24-11, Windstone Farm , Special Use Permit,  as presented  and 
hereby adopts the analysis set forth in the Planning Dep artment’s  June 17, 2024  Staff Review.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  – YES; Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES;  
Frank Mazza  – YES; Dwight Havens  – YES; William Smith  – YES; Jean Loewenstein  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
 
Everhart stated for the record that in Malta, Special Use Pe rmits r un with the land and are not dependent on 
the identity of the owners.  
 
Planning Board Business  
 
MOTION by Dwight Havens  SECONDED  by William Smith  to accept the May 29 , 2024  minutes.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  – YES; Stephen Grandeau  – ABSTAIN ; Ronald Bormann  – YES;  
Frank Mazza  – ABSTAIN ; Dwight Havens  – YES; William Smith  – YES; Jean Loewenstein  – ABSTAIN  
 
Motion CARRIED with 4 YES and 3 ABSTENTIONS  
 
Meeting Adjournment  
 
Stephen Grandeau  MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting 
necessary for the conduct  of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Jean Loewenstein , motion carried 
unanimously at 7:21  PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted by,  
 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary  
Planning Technicia n 