
The Town of Malta Planning Board held its regular meeting on Tuesday, January 24, 2023  at 6:30 p.m. at the 
Malta Town Hall, with Co -Chairperson, Jean Loewenstein  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 Jean Loewenstein   
 John Viola   
 Kyle Kordich   
 Stephen Grandeau   
 Ronald Bormann   
 Dwight Havens   
 William Smith   
 Leejun Taylo r  
  
Absent:     
Frank Mazza   
 
 
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Co-Chairperson Loewenstein  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
 
 
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
23-01 2272 US -9 Senior Apartments  Site Plan  (Concept)  
21-16 Mountain View Meadows 
Estates  Major Subdivision  
 
 
 
Chairperson Loewenstein  appointed William Smith  as a full Board member.  
 
 
23-01, 2272 US-9 Senior Apartments, Site Plan (Concept)
Scott Lansing of Lansing Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant. The proposal was for a concept 
site plan to redevelop a 6.31± acre site located at the 2272 Route 9 zoned C-9 Gateway and R-1 with a 
19,000 SF footprint, 48 unit, three-story senior apartment building with associated parking, outdoor amenity 
space, utilities, and landscaping.  
Lansing stated that the current onsite structures, a single family home and cottages would be demolished to 
make way for the proposed construction. Lansing also stated that the site would be accessed via US Route 9 
from the Northern portion of the site and the curb cut for the access would need to be approved by NYSDOT. 
Lansing noted that parking for the project would be based on the requirement of 2 parking spots per unit, 
totaling 96 parking spots. Lansing also noted that onsite amenities would include sidewalks to the building 
and to Route 9, with the frontage including streetlights and street trees.  
Lansing stated that the applicant would be considering an onsite trail system in the future, and that open 
space areas would be included along the sides and front of the building. Lansing also stated that stormwater 
would be managed onsite with a basin system, and the property would be connected to public water and 
sewer. Lansing noted that if the Town were to change the zoning of the property as is planned, and the zoning 
of the site were to full become C-9, the applicant would want to construct a second identical apartment 
building located behind the currently proposed building. 
Lansing mentioned that the comment received about parking in the front of the building was something that 
the applicant felt was necessary due to the nature of the clientele the applicant is marketing to being senior 
citizens. Lansing detailed the applicant’s feelings by noting that the front would include a drop off entrance 
way and parking for either residents, visitors, or both. 
Huizinga stated that she took no exception to what Lansing stated about the project. Huizinga stated for the 
Board that the property was zoned commercial and senior apartments were an allowed use with a Special Use 
Permit. Huizinga recommended that the applicant apply for a SUP when they present a Site Plan to the 
Planning Board. Huizinga mentioned that she spoke with Lansing about the guideline in the C-9 zoning not 
allowing parking between the building and the street. Huizinga stated for the Board that they had the purview 
to grant an applicant the ability to have parking between the building and Route 9 if the applicant could 
demonstrate that the guideline could not be met due to a practical constraint and circumstances beyond their 
control.  
Huizinga noted that the drive aisle in the front of the building was allowed, but the front parking would need to 
be approved by the Planning Board due to the zoning guidelines. Huizinga also noted that she felt the Board 
should consider allowing the front parking for drop offs or handicapped parking since the building was being 
built as senior housing. Huizinga stressed that if the proposed number of parking spaces out front needed to 
be reduced, the applicant was willing to discuss that with the Board. Huizinga also noted that she spoke with 
Lansing about this matter and that she wanted the landscaping to soften the view of the potential parking 
spots, with the addition of the architecture of the building drawing people’s attention, not the parking.  
BOARD DISCUSSION 
Loewenstein asked Lansing if the apartments would be independent living for seniors and if access to th e 
apartments would be via a main front and rear entrance leading into an interior corridor 
Lansing said yes and noted the possibility of secondary patio entrances to each apartment along the first floor 
of the building.  
Loewenstein also asked Lansing about special onsite amenities. 
Lansing stated that he would speak with the applicant about the details. 
Viola stated that his concern was with parki ng. V iola wanted th e applicant t o make s ure the Fir e Department 
approved par king and access f or truck turning radii and asked if the only access to the site woul d be via US 
Route 9. 
Lansi ng stated that the applicant would provide turning templates to the Fir e Department and confirmed that 
the only access to the site would be via Route 9. 
Grandea u asked what the applicant’s plans were f or the rear of the property if the zo ning didn’t change. 
Lansing stated that the applicant would determine that if and when necessary. 
Borma nn asked about the num ber of elevators onsite. 
Lansing stated that he would need to confirm that number with the architect. 
Havens asked about access with regards to the Fir e Department. Havens wanted the applicant t o ensure that 
the Fire Department would be able to access the building via ladder truck. 
Lansing stated that the applica nt’s plan was to use the rear road for Fir e Department access, but would 
confirm that to make sure that the des ign met international fire code. 
Smith asked if the building would be sprinkled and if the entrance would be a two way entrance. 
Lansing said he would confirm that the building would be fully sprinkled and wou ld speak with DOT about the 
entrance being either two way or left/right in r ight out. 
Smith also noted t hat h e wanted th e applicant to constr uct a buffer betwe en the sit e and the home to the 
North. 
Loewenst ein mentioned that she wanted to make sure th e front of the buildin g was landscaped properl y to 
ensure that the front of the building was very attractive from the road. 
Grandeau mentioned that he wanted the building t o have elevators that could fully fit stretchers without 
patients needing to be set straight up given their advanced age. 
21-16, Mountain View Estates , Major Subdivisio n, Approval (Final)
Lansing presented on behalf of the applica nt. Lansing informed the Board that he wanted to pick up where he 
left off at the December 20, 2022 Planning Board Meeting. Lansing stated that he was going to spar e the 
Board the unnecessary details of the project given the Board’s familiarity with it. Lansin g noted that to his 
knowledge the only details that needed to be ironed out were with regards to the Agricultural Easement 
associated with the project. 
Huizinga stated that if the Plan ning Board grant final approval of project #21-16 Mountain Vi ew Meadows, 
Major Subdivision, planning staff recommended the following conditions of approval:  1.Proposed HOA declaration of protective covenants, conditions, restriction, easements, charges and
liens to be reviewed by planning staff and planning attorney prior to signing of subdivision plat.
a.HOA offering plan shall include language that the HOA is responsible for maintenance of
stormwater management areas and language that the cisterns are the responsibility of the
individual homeowner.
b.The HOA agreement shall also include a copy of easement(s) to the Town for access to the
stormwater management areas.
c.Proposed HOA agreement shall include language regarding the Agricultural Conservation
Easement, farm related operations and practices.
2. Approval or Acceptance of the Agricultural Conservation Easement by the Town Board.
Huizinga noted that she wanted the Planning Board to go over the easement to make sure it was satisfactory 
to them and that the final decision on accepting the easement was the decision of the Town Board. 
Everhart stated at Loewenstein’s request that the Planning Board held a workshop for the Agricultural 
Easement in the beginning of the drafting process. Everhart noted that the applicant and the public was in 
attendance at this workshop. Everhart also noted that the Town Board would have the final say regarding the 
easement and would have control over what some of its terms would be. Everhart also mentioned that a 
comment was received from the Planning Board to streamline the easement language so it better fit the Town 
of Malta and wasn’t  cumbersomely long. 
Everhart noted that the applicant had worked with Legal staff and a “proposed” easement was  presented for 
the Town Board to move forward with the process. Everhart also noted that if the Planning Board wanted to 
make suggestions regarding the easement, they could do so. Everhart added to her statement by noting that 
the easement would be in the hands of the Town Board to make a final decision on, and it wasn’t her 
recommendation for the Planning Board to go through the easement word for word. Everhart recommended 
that the Planning Board move forward with a decision and allow the Town Board to work with the applicant to 
work out the details of the easement. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
Loewenstein noted that she read the easement and thought most comments were answered, but had a 
question on page 5, subsection 5(a) of the easement to clarify the term “Farmstead Area” and “Farm Area”.  
Everhart noted that NYS Agriculture and Markets set forth many different “use areas” in their “form 
easement” and asked Loewenstein to refer to the definitions of terms within the proposed easement on page 
4, subsection 4(m) to answer her question. Everhart clarified the definition of “Farmstead Area” as where the 
home and associated agricultural buildings would be located on the property. Everhart also clarified the 
definition of “Farm Area” as any land that was not part of the “Farmstead Area” or the “Resource Protection 
Area” depicted on “Exhibit B” as “Viable Agricultural Land”.  
Everhart also noted that the definition of the “Farmstead Area” was to carve out what would be allowed in the 
area based on if it was where one would live versus where one would work. The allowed uses within the 
“Farmstead Area” are limited to minimal “processing” based on the description in section 5, subsecti on 5(a) 
with more “denser processing activities” taking place outside the “Farmstead Area” within the “Viable 
Agricultural Land” area , but will be revised to reflect what is defined by the term “Farm Area”.  
Kordich asked if there was specific langua ge with in the HOA Agreement that advised future homeowners that 
they lived next t o a farm and “farming activities” would be happening next door to them .  
Everhart stated for Kordich that Huizinga recommended a draft HOA Agreement be provided to both Planning 
and Legal staff to review in order to ensure that future homeowners would be informed of a farm operation 
existing next door to them. 
Huizinga confirmed this by stating that she wanted the proposed HOA Agreement to include language 
regarding the Agricultura l Conservation Easement farm related oper ations and practices. Huizinga noted that 
she felt that said language ma y even need to be in each deed so homeowners are fully aware of the farm 
existing next door. 
Everhart noted that there wasn’t an issue with this language being included in deeds in addition to it being in 
the HOA Agreement. 
Kordich stated that h e did not think it needed to be in each deed, but needed to be included in the HOA 
Agreeme nt at a minimum. 
Viola stated for the record that he had multiple concerns regarding the project, and that the information 
presented at the meeting did not change his opinion regarding the project. 
Loewenst ein asked Everhart if the Board decided to move forward with the project, should they includ e the 
action taken regarding the access road from the December 20, 2022. 
Everhart recommended that the action taken regarding th e access road should be a condition of approval for 
the project. 
Resolution #2023 – 01  
MOTION b y Jean Loewenstein SECONDED b y Stephe n Grandeau to resolve that the Malta Plannin g Board on 
the 24th day of January 2023 appr oves final project approval for Project #21-16, Mountain View Estates , with 
the following conditions: 
1.Proposed HOA declaration of protective covenants, conditions, restriction, easements, charges and
liens to be reviewed by planning staff and planning attorney prior to signing of subdivision plat.
a.HOA offering plan shall include language that the HOA is responsible for maintenance of
stormwater management areas and language that the cisterns are the responsibility of the
individual homeowner.
b.The HOA agreement shall also include a copy of easement(s) to the Town for access to the
stormwater management areas.
c.Proposed HOA agreement shall include language regarding the Agricultural Conservation
Easement, farm related operations and practices.
2.Approval or Acceptance of the Agricultural Conservation Easement by the Town Board.
3.The Emergency Access/Surrey Road Extension include 2 sets of “Do Not Enter” and “Emergency
Services Only” signs and non-locking swingable gates at each end of the access road.4.The applicant convey to the Town of Malta an Agricultural Conservation Easement over the lot
containing the Remaining Lands of Mitchell et, al) in substantially the same form as has been
presented to the Planning Board subject to any additions or alterations that the Town Board may
require.
VOTE: 
Kyle Kordich – YES  
Stephen Grandeau – YES 
Ronald Bormann – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES 
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola – NO 
Motion CARRIED 6-1 
Planning Board Business  
MOTION by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by John Viola to accept the December 20th, 2022 minutes. 
VOTE: 
Kyle Kordich – ABSTAIN  
Stephen Grandeau – YES 
Ronald Bormann – YES 
Dwight Havens – ABSTAIN 
William Smith – ABSTAIN  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola – YES 
Motion CARRIED 4-3 
Stephen Grandeau MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting 
necessary for the conduct of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by John Viola, motion carried unanimously at 
7:09  p.m. 
Respectfully submitted by, 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary 
Planning Technician  