
The Town of Malta Planning Board held its regular meeting on Tuesday, February 28 , 2023  at 6:30 p.m. at the Malta Town 
Hall, with Co -Chairperson, Jean Loewenstein  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 Dwight Havens   
 Stephen Grandeau   
 Ronald Bormann   
 William Smith   
 Jean Loewenstein   
 Leejun Taylor   
 Frank Mazza   
  
Absent:     
 
John Viola   
Kyle Kordich   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Co-Chairperson Loewenstein  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
 
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
23-03 Dooley/Bass Manor  Minor Subdivision  
23-02 Sanctuary Salon  Project Plan  
22-25 Arnoff Global Logistics Phase #6  Site Plan  Amendment  
22-20 Retrograde  Recon Center  Site Plan  
 
 
 
 
Chairperson Loewenstein appointed William Smith and Leejun Taylor as full members.  
 
 
 
 
23-03, Dooley/Bass Manor , Minor Subdivision     Public Hearing  
The applicant is requesting approval for a minor SD to create a total of 2 lots at 30 Route 9P. As it stands, the existing 
parcel is 7.54± acres. As noted on the proposed subdivision map, the applicant is proposing to split the existing parcel 
into lots 2A and 2B. Lot 2A would be a buildable 3.005± acre lot with 200ft of road frontage. Lot 2B would be a 4.538± 
acre lot with 268.41ft of road frontage. Lot 2B would also contain the existing Bass Manor Bed & Breakfast. 30 Route 9P 
was previously subdivided in 2009. Lot 2B would also include a public water and sewer access from Admiral’s Way to the 
East of the property. 
Cassandra Dooley presented her proposal for a two (2) lot Minor Subdivision of her property at 30 NYS Route 9P to the 
Planning Board. 
Cattell spoke for the Planning Department. He noted that the subdivision would change one (1) lot into two (2) lots, one 
(Lot 2A) would be 3 acres and the second (Lot 2B) would be 4.54 acres. Cattell also noted that Lot 2A would have 200 
feet of road frontage and Lot 2B would have 268.41 feet of road frontage. 
Cattell stated for the Board that a Letter of No Impact was received from the NYS Office of Parks, Recreation, and 
Historical Preservation to confirm that nothing of interest was found on the site, despite the site being in a known 
archeologically sensitive area. 
Cattell also stated that at the time of the Planning Board meeting, no building permits had been submitted to the Building 
Department for new construction on Lot 2B. Cattell stated there should be no issues building a structure on the new lot 
because the proposed lot was zoning compliant with more than enough acerage to fit a single family home. 
Cattell recommended that the Planning Board find the project consistent with the Supplemental T own-wide GEIS and 
Statement of Findings with regards to SEQRA. 
Loewenstein asked Hull if the project had been submitted for Engineering Review. 
Hull confirmed that it had not been submitted and stated that since the project was small it would not need to be 
reviewed by Engineering. 
Everhart asked Cattell to confirm the Planning recommendation on SEQRA. 
Cattell restated that Planning felt the project was consistent with the Supplemental T own-wide GEIS and Statement of 
Findings. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
Smith asked Dooley if the project would be connected to Public water and sewer. 
Dooley said she thought so based on the easement being noted on the Subdivision map. 
Taylor asked Dooley if she would be creating noise deadening measures for Lot 2B due to the nearby Albany-Saratoga 
Speedway. 
Dooley noted that she felt the issue would be up to the Town to decide if such measures would be enacted and what they 
would encompass. 
Cattell commented that since the Speedway was a special case with a precedent set and being an active business 
nearby, the conditions created by the Speedway would be something prospective owners would need to tolerate. 
Dooley noted the Speedway issues further, mentioning the environmental impact of the Speedway creating heavy clay 
dust, how it permeates the air, and its effect on people. 
Hull not ed for the Board that despite the applicant’s concerns about the Speedway on the environment, a SEQRA 
determination w ould be bas ed on how the Subdivision w ould affect the environment, not how outside factors would 
affect the Subdivision project. Hull also not ed that perspective buyers wo uld need to be inform ed of the Speedway and 
the conditions creat ed by it. 
PUBLIC HEARING 
Loewenstei n ope ned the Pub lic Hearing at 6:41 
Loewenstei n clos ed the Public Hearing at 6:42 
Resolution #2023 – 02 
SEQRA  
MOTION  by Jean Loewenstein SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 28th 
day of February, 2023 determines that Project #23-03, Dooley/Bass Manor, Minor Subdivision is consistent with the 
Supplemental Town Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau – YES 
Ronald Bormann – YES  
Dwight Havens – YES 
William Smith – YES  
Leejun Taylor – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
Prior to the resolution being voted upon to approve/disapprove Project #23-03, Dooley/Bass Manor Minor Subdivision, 
Board member Smith requested that a condition be placed on the approval stating that at the time of sale, the  noise and 
dust emanating from the Albany-Saratoga Speedway and its effect on the property in question be recorded in the deed. 
Dooley stated for the Board that she felt it was unnecessary to include this in her deed at the time of sale. 
Smith noted for Dooley that he felt this condition should exist in order to protect the Town due to the dust and noise 
created by the Speedway being something a future owner may not like.  
Dooley asked Smith if other properties nearby were required to include a clause in their deeds at the time of sale about 
the Speedway being nearby. 
Smith stated that he was unable to answer her question. 
Dooley restated that she felt it was unnecessary for her to do this and asked why the Board felt she should when 
according to her knowledge the property across the road from her did not have to  inform the buyer of that property at the 
time of sale. 
Grandeau stated for Dooley that the Board felt it was wise given the special case existing because of the Speedway. 
Resolution #2023 – 03 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau SECONDED  by Ronald Bormann to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 28th day 
of February 2023 approves Project #23-03, Dooley/Bass Manor, Minor Subdivision, with the following conditions: 
1.At the time of sale, the deed for the new property include that the Albany-Saratoga Speedway neighbors the
property and creates dust and noise.VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau – YES 
Ronald Bormann – YES  
Frank Mazza - YES 
Dwight Havens – YES 
William Smith – YES  
Leejun Taylor – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
23-02, Sanctuary Salon , Form Based Code Project Plan    Public Hearing  
The applicant, Jeffrey Ramirez, is pursuing Form- Based Code Project Plan approval for renovating the former Stewart’s 
convenience store 2505 Route 9. The applicant is proposing minor site improvements consisting of landscaping and 
restriping the parking lot. Building alterations include structural columns, removing the existing walk in cooler, new 
windows facing Route 9. The façade will be whitewashed with black accent trim. The interior will be renovated to 
accommodate the salon with 10 salon station, coloring station, shampoo area, office, and ADA accessible restrooms. 
Mike Munter presented on behalf of the applicant and described what the applicant envisioned. 
Huizinga spoke for the Planning Department and reminded the Planning Board that this project was a Form Based Code 
project. Huizinga noted that FBC projects go to the Planning Board for their input, but do not receive a resolution for 
approval from the Board itself, FBC projects are approved administratively by the Building and Planning Coordinator. 
Huizinga noted that the project was located within the Downtown Parade Grounds (DP-2) FBC Zone. Huizinga also noted 
that the project would encompass an exterior remodel and an interior fit-up to become a hair salon. 
Huizinga stated that the applicant was at the Planning Board meeting for a Public Hearing, that they provided Planning 
staff with a traffic assessment for the site, and asked the applicant to provide a Signage Plan for both the proposed free-
standing, double column sign and wall signs. 
Hull noted two comments about parking for the project. 
1.The striped area designated for handicapped access needed to be widened to allow enough space for ADA
requirements.
2.The far left parking space depicted on the Plan would be too difficult to access due to the angling of it.
Hull wanted the applicant to change the angling of the parking spaces to allow for adequate access to the far left parking 
space. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
Grandeau asked the applicant about how many chairs there would be in the salon. 
Shannon Ramirez, the applicant, informed Grandeau that there would be 14 chairs in the salon. 
Grandeau felt that there was not enough parking proposed on the plan. 
The applicant noted that there were 14 parking spots in the front and that there would be additional parking provided 
behind the building not noted on the Plan to accommodate employees. 
Grandeau noted he wanted to make sure there was enough parking due to the history of accidents on the corner. 
Havens concurred with Grandeau and noted that he felt the parking was tight on the East side of the building and wanted 
the applicant to make sure there was enough space for customers to back out of those parking spots without hitting cars 
parked at neighboring businesses within the same plaza. 
Mazz a not ed that it might be a good idea to keep the angling of the parking the sam e as it was when the building was a 
Stewart’s Shops inst ead of changing it.  
Loewenstei n agreed wit h Hull about changing the far West parking spot because of it being difficult to access and wanted 
the applicant to include t he parking b ehind the building on t he plans. 
PUBLIC HEARING 
Loewenstei n ope ned the Pub lic Hearing at 7:03PM. 
Loewenstei n clos ed the Public Hearing at 7:04PM. 
Loewenstei n not ed that final approval of the project would be made by t he Planning Departm ent before the applicant left. 
22-25, Arnoff Global Logistics Phase #6, Site Plan Amendment ___ 
The applicant, Arnoff Moving-Storage-Rigging has submitted a Site Plan amendment for the expansion of their existing 
Arnoff Global Logistics campus located at 10 Stonebreak Road. The applicant is proposing to construct a 110,164 SF 
light industry/commercial/warehouse building with associated parking east of existing Building #3. The most eastern 
access would be moved approximately 150 feet further east on Stonebreak Road. The new building would be Building 
#4. 
Lansing presented on behalf of the applicant and requested final project approval. 
Lansing highlighted the number of parking spots associated with the building, stating that there would be 117 parking 
spaces for cars in the front and along the sides of the building, and 53 associated parking spaces for tractor trailers and 
box trucks around the building. 
Lansing noted that stormwater would be managed on-site, and that the building would be serviced by public water and 
sewer. 
Lansing also noted comments received from Planning and Engineering relating to the architectural drawings not 
matching on plans and stated that they would update them to match, and about the applicant needing to receive a “Will 
Serve” letter from the Water  and Sewer departments, stating that he would make sure those letters were received. 
Lansing also spoke about the concern from the Town about the berm along Stonebreak road, stating that the applicant 
would not be disturbing the berm and would leave as much vegetation on the site as possible, supplementing cutting 
with plantings elsewhere on-site. 
Huizinga spoke for the Planning Department. Huizinga described the site to the Planning Board, noting that the project 
was an approved use for the site and that she felt a SEQRA determination could be reached at the meeting. Huizinga 
noted that the applicant needed to correct the inconsistencies with the architecture of the building on plans and needed 
submit final renderings for the design prior to project approval and before the final plans were submitted for building 
permits.  
Huizinga also noted that she wanted the number of proposed parking spaces to match up on the cover sheet and on the 
plans, and that she wanted a landscaping and a lighting plan submitted by the applicant. 
Huizinga closed with stating that she recommended conditional approval based on her comments and Engineering 
comments if the Board were to grant final project approval at the meeting. 
Hull noted comments from the 2.23. 2023 LaBella comment letter on file with the Planning Department. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
Loewenstein noted her concern about multiple pieces missing from the plans, and wanted the applicant to satisfy all 
requirements before a decision was rendered for the project.  
Grand eau asked Lansing if an apparatus access p lan had bee n submitted. 
Lansing stat ed that a plan was submitted. 
Lansing also not ed that landsc aping would be a basic pla n give n that the project was industrial in natur e, as oppos ed to 
a residential project. Lansin g also stat ed that lighting wo uld be desig ned to be as limit ed as possible wit hin the 
requirements to ensure there wo uld not be spillage ont o neighboring properties. 
Borm ann ask ed what wou ld be stor ed in the building, and if they wo uld be combustibles. 
Arnoff noted that the majority of stor ed materials w ould be furniture and retail goods. Arn off also not ed that the building 
would be heavily sprinkled. 
Mazz a ask ed Lansing what the widt h of the road around the building wo uld be. 
Lansing not ed that the minimum widt h of the building wo uld meet fire code (26 feet). 
Havens ask ed Lansing if they look ed into how muc h more water w ould be ne eded to suppress fires.  
Lansing not ed that his fir e suppress ion engineers look ed into this and the water supply available w ould be sufficient. 
Smit h not ed that plans seem ed to only allow for ladder fire truck access on one side of the building. 
Lansing not ed that the desig n met fire code and that there was enoug h room on multiple sid es of the building for a 
ladder truck t o provide fire suppression. 
Hull not ed for Grandeau that the building m et fire code access. 
Loewenstei n ask ed Hull to confirm if water and wastewater reports had bee n provided y et or not. 
Hull stat ed that they had not bee n provid ed and that he felt it wo uld be better for them to be provid ed sooner rather than 
later to ensure that no issues wo uld arise wit h water or sewer concerns in the future 
Resolution #2023 – 04 
SEQRA 
MOTION by Je an Loewenstein SECONDED by Stephen Grandeau to resolve that the Malt a Planning Board on the 28th 
day of February, 2023 determines that Project #22-25, Ar noff Glob al Logistics Phase #6, Site Pl an Amendment, is 
consist ent with the Supplemental Tow n Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is 
required.    
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau – YES 
Ronald Bormann – YES  
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES 
William Smith – YES  
Leejun Taylor – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
Once a SEQRA Resolution had been decided, Loewenstein asked if anyone on the Board wished to make a 
recommendation for project approval, and noted that she felt the project was not ready for approval at that time until the 
concerns of the Board, Engineering, and Planning had been addressed. 
No motion was made and the project was tabled until a future Planning Board meeting. 
22-20, Retrograde Recon Center, Site Plan
The owner and applicant Shooting Star Properties, LLC, is proposing a site plan to construct an 18,927 SF automotive 
recon center facility, associated parking, and vehicle inventory storage. Two full access curb cuts are proposed along 
State Farm Place, a private road. The site plan includes 174 parking stalls for customer, employee, and vehicle inventory 
storage. The site is located adjacent to the existing Mohawk Chevrolet Dealership located at 633 Route 67. 
Lansing presented on behalf of the applicant and asked for preliminary final review. 
Lansing noted that the name of the project had been changed to “Retrograde Recondition ing Center” from “Mohawk 
Chevrolet Recon Center” due to a change in ownership and the business being separate from Mohawk Chevrole t. 
Lansing also noted that the project would be serviced by public sewer and public water, and that additional plans such as 
landscaping and lighting would be provided at a later date. 
Huizinga spoke for the Planning Department and noted that the applican t needed to address minor issues and felt that 
the project met SEQRA requirements for there to be no further review necessary. Huizinga also wanted Engineering 
comments answered and a wetland disturbance letter received from ACOE. 
Hull noted comment 11A from the 2/23/23 LaBella Engineering Comment Letter due to inconsistencies in calculations. 
Hull also noted that a water/sewer will serve letter had been received and forwarded to Planning. 
Hull noted that the lighting on the property would spill over onto the street and to the onsite wetlands but would not be 
an issue for neighbors. Hull also noted that he had no issues with traffic. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
Havens asked Lansing if the building would be sprinkled or not. 
Lansing stated that it would be. 
Resolution #2023 – 06 
SEQRA  
MOTION  by Jean Loewenstein SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 28th 
day of February, 2023 determines that Project #22-20, Retrograde Recon Center, Site Plan, is consistent with the 
Supplemental Town Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau – YES 
Ronald Bormann – YES  
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES 
William Smith – YES  
Leejun Taylor – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
Resolution #2023 – 07 
MOTION  by Jean Loewenstein SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 28th 
day of February 2023 approves Project #22-20, Retrograde Recon Center, Site Plan, with the following conditions: 
1.All comments in the LaBella 2/23/ 2023 Engineering Comment Letter be addressed.
2.A copy of the ACOE Wetland Disturbance Letter be provided to the Planning Department.VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau – YES 
Ronald Bormann – YES  
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES 
William Smith – YES  
Leejun Taylor – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
Planning Board Business  
MOTION by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by William Smith to accept the January 24, 2023 minutes. 
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau – YES 
Ronald Bormann – YES  
Frank Mazza – ABSTAIN 
Dwight Havens – YES 
William Smith – YES  
Leejun Taylor – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
Motion CARRIED with one ABSTENSION 
Stephen Grandeau MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Jean Loewenstein, motion carried unanimously at 7:40 p.m. 
Respectfully submitted by, 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary 
Planning Technician  