
Hall, with Co -Chairperson, Jean Lowenstein  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 Jean Loewenstein   
 John Viola   
 Kyle Kordich  (LATE)  
 Dwight Havens   
 William Smith   
 Leejun Taylor   
  
Absent:     
Stephen Grandeau   
Ronald Bormann   
Frank Mazza   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Chairperson Loewenstein  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
 
 
 
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
21-16 Mountain View Estates  Major Subdivision  
23-18 Route 9 RV and Boat Storage  Site Plan  
23-05 Heflin (721 NYS Route 67) Apartments  Site Plan  
 
 
 
 
 
Chairperson Loewenstein  elevated William Smith and Leejun Taylor to full voting Board Members . 
 
 
 
 21-16, Mountain View Estates, Major Subdivision (Extension of Approval)                                 
 
Scott Lansing presented on behalf of the applicant.  
 
Lansing noted  that the NYS DEC was the only roadblock they were contending with before moving forward with the 
project. Lansing also noted that extending the water district was  scheduled to be discussed by the Malta Town Board in 
the near future. Lansing stated that he was before the Planning Board to request an extension of approval and that no 
changes had been made to the project since final approval had been granted.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Loewenstein asked Lansing if the project was moving forward despite the challenges presented by the NYSDEC.  
 
Lansing stated that small gains were being accomplished despite the challenges and that he and the applicant did not 
anticipate the DEC approval process to take as long as it had so far.  
 
Loewenstein asked Huizinga when an extensi on of approval would expire if it were granted at the 12.19.2023 Meeting.  
 
Huizinga stated that the next expiration would be March 20th, 2024, and recommended that Lansing request to be 
placed on the February Planning Board Agenda if an additional extensio n of approval were anticipated.  
 
Resolution #2023 – 44 
 
MOTION  by John Viola  SECONDED  by Dwight Havens  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 19th  day of  
December , approves a 90-day Extension of Approval for Project #21 -16 Mountain View Estates, Major Subdivision 
extending the expiration date of December 2 1, 2023 to March 20, 2024 . 
 
VOTE:  
 
Dwight Havens – YES 
William Smith – YES 
Leejun Taylor – YES 
Jean Loewenstein  - YES  
John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 5-0 
 
23-18, Route 9 RV & Boat Storage, Site Plan               
 
Scott Lansing of Lansing Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant.  
 
Lansing detailed the project . Lansing stated that the current site conditions included several buildings that would be 
demolished except for a single -family residence at the front of the property that would be potentially used as office space 
for the Storage Facility. Lansing stated that the proposed facility would be 36, 000 SF and feature 36, 20’x50’ storage 
bays.  
 
Lansing noted that one of the existing curb cuts for the site would be eliminated and that there would only be one 
entrance off of US Route 9, parallel to Knabner Road. Lansing also noted that the facility woul d be accessed along the 
Northern and Southern sides of the building. Lansing added that the size of the facility had decreased by 2,000 SF since 
the last time the proposal was before the Board and that he would be modifying the design to address comments m ade 
to increase greenspace on the site and returning at a later date to make a final presentation to the Planning Board.  
 
Huizinga spoke for Planning . Huizinga  noted that she wanted architectural renderings  for the facility,  and noted that the 
Board may wa nt to discuss more ornamental landscaping as a form of amenity space to satisfy that requirement for  the 
C-2 zone.  Huizinga also noted that she felt the Board may want to discuss security fencing for the site.  Huizinga added  
that she spoke with Lansing abo ut greenspace calculations and that updates may need to be made to the statistics table 
on the cover page . 
 Reuben Hull, LaBella Associates,  spoke for engineering and noted that his comments were mainly related to interior site 
maneuverability for both cus tomers and fire apparatus. Hull added that he requested that the applicant receive approval 
from the fire department before he would recommend that the project was ready for approval. Hull also noted his 
approval of Lansing’s comment to increase onsite vegetation to allow more shielding to the property to the North and 
that the remainder of his comments were related to stormwater management, onsite lighting, and a traffic and driveway 
analysis.  
 
Hull added that if fencing were considered, he would like to review the fencing chosen and wanted to discuss gate 
placement.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Viola wanted more landscaping , fire department approval, fencing, and asked about the existing curb cut.  
 
Lansing stated that there were currently two curb cuts and that on e would be eliminated so that the one in line with 
Knabner Road was the only access to the site.  
 
Havens noted that he wanted automatic fire sprinklers for the building and added that given the type and size of building 
and the materials stored in it warra nted the need for sprinklers per NYS Fire Code. Havens added that if the building is 
not sprinkle red the amount of water needed to extinguish a fire would increase by 2 or 3 times compare d to if the 
building were sprinkle red, totaling 4,000 gal/min over 4 hours. Havens added he felt the sprinklers would be a much 
better idea.  
 
Smith asked if the project would  need to go before the  ZBA since there would be a real estate office onsite in the existing 
house making the site mixed use. 
 
Huizinga noted that the project would not need to go before  the ZBA but that a Special Use Permit  would be  needed.  
 
Smith added that he also wanted sprinklers.  
 
Loewenstein  noted that she  wanted additional and more aesthetic landscaping onsite and only as much pavement onsite  
as necessary.  
 
Lansing stated that the site needed a minimum of 50 feet of pavement extending from the building in order for vehicles 
to safely maneuver in and out of the storage bays. Lansing also noted that he would provide renderings and increase 
lands caping. Lansing added that the applicant did not plan on fencing the site given that the site was small but would 
speak with the applicant about fencing in the site.  
 
Lansing also added that he felt the site was sufficient for fire apparatus maneuverabili ty and that the applicant was 
working with an architect to determine the best way to provide adequate fire prevention measures but that he would 
mention that the Board wanted the site sprinkle red. Lansing noted that he was not sure what the intention of th e 
applicant was with the onsite office but would find out and apply for a Special Use Permit in the future if needed.  
 
Lansing quickly added that the applicant wasn’t planning on fencing in the site since it would need to be plowed around 
and that it could  potentially be damaged and need to be replaced, canceling out the benefit of the fencing.  
 
Loewenstein asked the Board if they felt the 5 proposed parking spaces were enough for the site.  
 
Hull noted that he had comments on the size of the proposed spaces  and that he felt it may be necessary to lose a space 
to allow for more maneuverability.  
 
Lansing noted that he felt parking would only really be necessary for a handicapped space to allow for more greenspace 
onsite. Lansing didn’t see the need for parking  since there wouldn’t be many people onsite other than to utilize the site.  
 
The Board felt parking was unnecessary other than a handicapped space due to the use of the building.  
 
Rick Burke, Chief of the Round Lake Fire Department also felt sprinklers wer e a good idea for the space.  Huizinga asked Lansing if the applicant was still proposing porous pavement.  
Lansing stated that the applicant intended on utilizing porous pavement.  
 
23-05, Heflin (721 NYS Route 67)  Apartments, Site Plan          
 
Scott Lansing of Lansing Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant.  
 
Lansing noted that the site was 8.11 acres , and that it was  code compliant with obtained variances. Lansing stated that 
there would be 3 11-unit buildings  proposed for the project and th at he was  at the meeting for Board comments.  
 
Huizinga spoke for Planning. Huizinga noted  that she wanted a more robust landscaping  plan and driveway lighting. 
Huizinga also noted that she w anted more amenity space  onsite  beyond connecting  the site  to the Zim Smith Trail  and 
suggested a  bike rack for residents.  
 
Hull reviewed engineering comments . Hull felt that his comments on fire apparatus  access , stormwater  management , 
and utilities  would be addressed in future site plan submissions. Hull also felt that  landscaping was sufficient but wanted 
more  onsite  lighting.  Hull also noted that he w anted a formal response  as to why the proposed entrance did not line up 
with Raymond Road.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Loewenstein asked for clarification on Hull’s wetland comment  in the review letter . 
 
Lansing stated that the comment was related to the fact that the proposed entrance utilized the narrowest area to cross 
the Ballston Creek and avoided onsite wetlands that were across from Raymond Road on the project site.  
 
Loewenstein  asked how far the driveway would be from Raymond Road.  
 
Lansing noted that the driveway w ould be  approximately 250 feet West of Raymond Road.  
 
Hull also noted that the proposed driveway was misaligned in the more preferred direction to not allow  left turn conflicts.  
 
Loewenstein asked if the traffic study identified the impacts to Raymond Road and NYS Route 67.  
 
Lansing noted that he would need to look into that.  
 
Viola asked how tall the buildings were.  
 
Lansing stated that they were approximate ly 25 feet tall and 2 stories.  
 
Havens  commented that he  liked the cul -de-sac size for fire apparatus access.  
 
Lansing noted that the cul -de-sac met International Fire Code.  
 
Havens wanted to know how parking would be controlled on the cul-de-sac. 
 
Lansing stated that he would utilize signage to deter illegal parking.  
 
Smith asked Lansing if a fire access plan had been completed and asked how wide the driveway was.  
 
Lansing stated that one was completed and that the access road was 24’ w ide with 2’ wings.  
 
Loewenstein echoed Huizinga’s comments about increased landscaping , a bike rack and asked about concept rendering.  
 
Huizinga added that she wanted a materials plan as well . 
 
Lansing noted that he would provide one with the next submission.   
Planning Board Business  
 
MOTION by John Viola  SECONDED  by Jean Loewenstein  to accept the October 24, 2023  minutes.  
 
VOTE:  
 
Kyle Kordich  – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES 
William Smith – ABSTAIN  
Leejun Taylor – ABSTAIN  
Jean Loewenstein  - YES  
John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED, 4 Yes, and 2 Abstentions.  
 
2024 Saratoga County Planning and Zoning Conference  
Wednesday January 31, 2024, at the Saratoga Springs City Center  
 
Meeting Adjournment  
 
John Viola  MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the conduct  
of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich , motion carried unanimously at 7:20  PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted by,  
 
 
 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary  
Planning Technicia n 