
The Town of Malta Planning Board  held its regular meeting on  Tuesday, August 27 , 2024  at 6:30 p.m. at the Malta Town 
Hall, with Co -Chairperson, John Viola  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 John Viola   
 Stephen Grandeau   
 Dwight Havens   
 Frank Mazza   
 William Smith   
 Leejun Taylor   
 Kyle Kordich  (LATE)   
  
Absent:     
 
Jean Loewenstein   
Ronald Bormann   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Chairperson Viola  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
24-08 Philly Subdivision (Stewart’s Road ) Minor Subdivision  
21-18 4 Old Stonebreak Road Warehouse  Site Plan  
24-15 Parker Truck Repair (2653 US Route 9)  Site Plan (Concept)  
 
Chairperson Viola  elevated William Smith  and Leejun Taylor to full voting member  status . 
 
Planning Board  Business  
 
MOTION by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Frank Mazza  to accept the July 23, 2024 and June 25 , 2024  minutes.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Stephen Grandeau – YES; Frank Mazza – YES; Dwight Havens  – YES;  
William Smith  – YES; Leejun Taylor -  ABSTAIN ; John Viola  – ABSTAIN  
 24-08, Philly Subdivision (Stewart’s Road ), Minor Subdivision                      Public Hearing  
 
Chuck Marshall of Stewart’s Shops Corp. presented . Marshall noted that since the last presentation, the only changes  
were the alteration of the lot dimensions involved in the change in the curvature of the proposed road, that the proposed 
tax lots were provided to the Town, and that the LaBella Associates technical comments needed to be add ressed. 
Marshall noted that he felt the comments could be addressed via a condition of approval. Marshall also noted that once 
the project was approved, Charlie’s Stay and Play (Charlie’s) would be released from an existing LLC with Stewart’s and 
that they  would receive ownership of their parcel that would be separate from the road parcel and the parcel to the South 
of the road would be retained by Stewart’s.  Marshall also stated that the comments related to lighting along the road 
would be addressed by ins talling solar powered lighting along the road instead of needing to run the utilities for 
underground wiring.  
 
Huizinga spoke for Planning. Huizinga stated that the applicant had addressed Planning’s comments since their last 
presentation. Huizinga added that of the proposed lots, lot #1  (North of the road)  would be approximately 93 acres, lot 
#2 (South of the road)  would be 5.3 acres, lot #3 (Charlie’s) would be 5.6 acres , and  lot #4 (road parcel) would be 2.8 
acres. Huizinga also added that the pro posed lots met C -8 zoning and that the existing PDD lots would not be changed. 
Huizinga stated that Planning’s  SEQR recommendation i s that  the project is consistent with the Supplemental Town -Wide 
GEIS and Statement of Findings and that no further review w as necessary .  She recommended the Board  require a 
condition of approval , that the applicant address LaBella’s comments related to the road  and the proposed tax lots map 
be incorporated in the final subdivision plan set.  She also recommended  a note be added to the plan stating that the 
Town would not be responsible for maintaining the stormwater management area on lot #1.  
 
Hull spoke for Engineering . Hull noted that most of his comments were addressed but that the stormwater management 
plan f or the project still needed to be reviewed.  
 
Kyle Kordich arrived at 6:38 PM.  
 
Everhart asked Marshall if he would object to the Planning Board  imposing a condition that would request Stewart’s to 
offer the road for dedication to the Town  excluding the sto rmwater management area.  
 
Marshall stated that he had no issues with that.  
 
Everhart asked Huizinga if the proposed condition would satisfy her concerns about the ownership of the stormwater 
management area.  
 
Huizinga stated that she would agree to such a condition and added for clarification that she would want to see the long -
term operation and maintenance of the stormwater management area outside of the Town’s right -of-way to be the 
applicant’s responsibility. Huizinga further clarified that the catch ba sins on the road would be the responsibility of the 
Town but that the stormwater management areas/basins/ponds would be the responsibility of the applicant to maintain.  
 
BOARD  DISCUSSION  
 
Taylor asked if the solar lighting would work in the Winter.  
 
Marshall stated that he believed the lights would work in the Winter . 
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Chairperson Viola  reopened the Public Hearing at 6:41  PM. 
 
No comments were received from the public . 
 
Chairperson Viola closed the Public Hearing at 6:42  PM. 
 
Resolution #2024 – 17 
SEQRA  
 MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board  on the 2 7th day of 
August , 2024 determines that Project #24 -08, Philly Subdivision , Minor Subdivision , is consistent with the Supplemental 
Town Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich – YES; Stephen Grandeau – YES; Frank Mazza – YES;  
Dwigh t Havens  – YES; William Smith  – YES; Leejun Taylor -  YES; John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED  7-0 
 
Resolution #2024 – 18 
 
MOTION  by Frank Mazza  SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board  on the 2 7th day of 
August , 2024 determines that Project #24 -08, Philly Subdivision , Minor Subdivision , with the following conditions : 
1. The applicant offers  the proposed roadway to the Town for dedication.  
2. The applicant address all outstanding Engineering comments  dated August 23, 2 024. 
3. That the “Proposed Tax Map Parcel ” sheet  be incorporated in the  final plan set . 
4. That the Stormwater Management Area  be owned and maintained by  the owner of lot #1. 
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich – YES; Stephen Grandeau – YES; Frank Mazza – YES;  
Dwight Havens  – YES; William Smith  – YES; Leejun Taylor -  YES; John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED  7-0 
 
21-18, 4 Old Stonebreak Road Warehouse, Site  Plan                                           
 
Dave Kimmer of ABD Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant. Kimmer noted that the project was last before 
the Board  in June and since that time the comments received from Engineering and the Board  had been addressed. 
Kimmer noted that more pavemen t would be proposed and that the truck turning plan had been amended to allow for 
better circulation. Kimmer also noted that the North -side of the building would receive more landscaping and a more 
aesthetic design with color accents and a stone water board  along the office portion of the building. Kimmer added that 
the requested photometric plan had been submitted and that Engineering noted that they were concerned with the 
proposed lighting creat es more than 1.0 foot -candles (fc) of light in the parking lo t as required by Malta code. Kimmer 
stated that the applicant could amend the lighting plan to allow for only 1.0 fc of lighting on the property but felt that th e 
way the lighting was proposed would not adversely affect neighboring properties since no ligh t would spill onto 
neighboring properties. Kimmer added that the applicant would like to keep the lighting as it was currently proposed to 
allow for enough lighting on the property.  
 
Huizinga noted that the Board  discussed architecture at the last meeting since two  façades of the building faced the 
road. Huizinga  also noted that the applicant improved the design by adding some stonework/brick façade along the 
office portion and change d the design of the metal work along the office portion of the building to  break up the design. 
Huizinga added that additional landscaping had been added to the plan as requested .  She  recommended  for SEQR 
review  that the project was consistent with the Supplemental Town -Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and that no 
further SEQR review was needed . Huizinga  recommended a condition of approval for the applicant to address 
engineering comments and to change the remaining non -native planting on the plan to a native variety . 
 
Hull s poke for Engineering and noted that all previous co mments had been addressed, that the fire department was 
satisfied with the design, that the SWPPP would need to be updated for the project, and that the lighting issue was a 
technicality related to the parking lot lighting producing more than 1.0 fc on ave rage throughout the site. Hull added that 
if the Board  wanted the applicant to keep lighting at the 1.0 fc average, the applicant would need to return to the Board  
with the amended design to approve it. Hull also added that if the Board  wanted to give the applicant some discretion, 
the details of the lighting  could be worked out behind the scenes with Engineering. Hull’s last comment was related to 
stormwater, Hull noted that since the size of the project would not require a full stormwater management plan but would 
not create significant runoff, he wanted a c ondition that would be enforced during construction of the project to allow the Town to monitor stormwater controls.  
 
Everhart asked Huizinga if what Hull was requesting was typical during construction.  
 
Huizinga confirmed that since the project would dist urb more than an acre of land, it would require a soil disturbance 
permit and would require weekly inspections as per Town regulations.   
 
BOARD  DISCUSSION  
 
Kordich was concerned with the lighting issue and wanted to know if Engineering wanted the Board  to ask the applicant 
to adhere to the standard lighting requirements  identified in the code. Kordich also asked if making the applicant adhere 
to those standards would require the applicant  to retur n to th e Board  with an amended proposal  at a later date.  
 
Hull stated that he would leave it to the discretion of the Board  to decide whether to enforce the standard or not.  
 
Viola asked how much more powerful the proposed lighting  was compared to the standard li ghting.  
 
Kimmer stated that the proposed lighting  was fairly typical to a warehouse building with full cutoff downfacing fixtures. 
Kimmer also stated that the design of the proposed lighting met all other regulations but that the lighting was proposed 
as brighter near the loading docks and in the parking areas. Kimmer added that the lighting as proposed would not allow 
for more than 1.0 fc to be cast off of the property.  
 
Kordich stated that he was concerned about potential light pollution and wanted to kno w if the Board  should make the 
applicant adhere to the requirement like other applicants have had to in the past.  
 
Kimmer stated that the lights would be  dark sky compliant and that less than 1.0 fc of light would leave the property with 
the proposed light design. Kimmer also stated that the applicant could spec lower wattage lights but  he felt it would be 
less safe in outlying , darker areas.  
 
Viola asked how the Board  felt a bout lighting.  
 
Havens felt that considering this project differently than others would not be fair.  
 
Kimmer stated that Malta code allow s brighter outdoor lighting around high -security areas upwards of 5 f cs and felt the 
proposed use justified the brighter lighting.  
 
Viola asked if the businesses onsite would be operated 24/7.  
 
Kimmer stated that they would not run 24/7.  
 
Kordich asked how much the lighting  would be affected  if it were  lessened.  
 
Kimmer state d that the lighting could be dimmed and that more fixtures could be added . Kimmer added that only so 
many could be installed  around the perimeter of the building  and that a dark spot would be created in the middle of the 
lot with dimmer lights.  
 
Grandeau asked about  how other parking lots  handled the requirement  in town.  
 
Kimmer stated that he wasn’t sure how other lots were treated.  
 
Viola asked the Board  if they wanted to make the applicant adhere to the 1.0 fc requirement.  
 
The Board  agreed to requiring the applicant to adhere to the Town code.  
 
Kordich  added that if  the applicant me t code -compliance he was  happy , regardless of how the details were worked out.  
 
 Resolution #2024 – 19 
SEQRA  
 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Frank Mazza  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board  on the 2 7th day of 
August , 2024 determines that Project # 21-18, 4 Old Stonebreak Road Warehouse , Site Plan , is consistent with the 
Supplemental Town Wide GEIS and Statement of Fi ndings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich – YES; Stephen Grandeau – YES; Frank Mazza – YES;  
Dwight Havens  – YES; William Smith  – YES; Leejun Taylor -  YES; John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED  7-0 
 
Prior to voting on approval, Everhart asked the Board  if they wanted to structure the condition of approval to state that 
the applicant be required to adhere to the limitation of 1.0 fcs of light on -site. 
 
The Board  agreed to Everhart’s suggestion.  
 
Resolution #2024 – 20 
 
MOTION  by Kyle Kordich  SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board  on the 2 7th day of 
August , 2024 determines that Project # 21-18, 4 Old Stonebreak Road Warehouse , Site Plan , with the following 
condition s: 
 
1. That t he applicant limit all outdoor lighting to an average of 1.0-foot candle as approved by Engineering and in 
compliance with Malta Town code.  
2. That the a pplicant address  all outstanding  LaBella comments  dated August 22, 2024  
3. That the applicant r eplace s non-native plant , Euonymus Fortune,  with native plants.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich – YES; Stephen Grandeau – YES; Frank Mazza – YES;  
Dwight Havens  – YES; William Smith  – YES; Leejun Taylor -  YES; John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED  7-0 
 
24-15, Parker Truck Repair (2653 US Route 9) , Site Plan (Concept)                     
 
Scott Lansing presented on behalf of the applicant. Lansing stated for the Board  that this is the f irst presentation  where 
he would  obtain feedback from Board  and return at a later date. Lansing also stated that the  project need ed ZBA 
approval for  a front -yard setback variance  and was anticipating  a positive outcome from  the ZBA. Lansing noted that the 
site is approximately 3 acres an d that it is a vacant  site with  some wetlands and steep slopes . Lansing also noted that 
surrounding uses are the Albany -Saratoga Speedway, Showcase of Homes, Malta Springs neighborhood, and an 
archeologically protected site.  
 
Lansing stated that the parcel is zoned C -7 Commercial and that the proposed conditions would be a truck service 
garage that would be a single -story, 3,750 SF building with three bays on either side of the building to allow for vehicles 
to more easily acce ss the garage and proposed on -site parking during and after repairs. Lansing also stated that there 
would be one full access on Route 9 to allow tractor -trailers to access the property and enter the garage that would 
suffice for fire apparatus access as we ll. Lansing added that there would be 25 parking spaces on -site (8 required) along 
the East and South sides of the facility for 5 passenger vehicles, 16 straight trucks and 4 tractor -trailers.  
 
Lansing noted that since less than one acre of land would be disturbed, a full SWPPP would not be required but that a 
stormwater management plan would be created. Lansing also noted that the property would be supplied by public water 
and public sewer. Lansing noted that no architectural renderings had been completed  yet but would in the future .  He  
added that the entire disturbed area on the property would be in flat, upland areas that would not disturb steep slopes or wetlands. Lansing also added that he was applying for the front -yard setback variance because the R oute 9 ROW is wider 
in front of the property than others in the area, forcing the front -yard setback further onto the property. Lansing noted 
that the distance from the front of the proposed building to the road was actually closer to 60’ and felt the vari ance 
would not be difficult to obtain.  
 
Huizinga stated that the applicant was before the Board  for concept and that th e presentation .  She reminded the Board  
that a concept plan for a used auto dealership was  presented  a few years ago for the same locatio n. Huizinga added that 
the former proposal would have had more cars on -site than the current proposal but  with the similar  amount of 
pavement. Huizinga noted that she was c oncerned about the amount of pavement and how close the heavy vehicles 
would be to t he on-site steep slopes and ephemeral stream. Huizinga stated that she w anted the environmental sensitive 
areas protected with curbing to prevent trucks from causing erosion of the steep slopes . Huizinga added that the 
proposed project would need t a front yard setback variance from  ZBA prior to it returning to the Planning Board . 
 
Hull spoke for engineering and echoed Huizinga’s comments but was also concerned with how the proposed project 
could affect the nearby Class C (T) stream that is fed by the t wo on -site tributaries to the East and South of the project 
site. Hull added that his comments were related to how runoff would be handled to protect the pavement , steep slope,  
and the streams. Hull noted that a full SWPPP was not necessary for the project  l but wanted a fairly robust stormwater 
management plan for the project since the site would be at the top of a plateau with the impervious surfaces created by 
the pavement and the proposed shop’s roof. Hull added that any of the work that would be needed  to install perimeter 
lighting, and curbing or guard -rails would also have the potential to disturb the native, sandy slopes onsite and it was 
something that he wanted to see protected by a stormwater management plan.  
 
BOARD  DISCUSSION  
 
Kordich was concerned with the protection of the steams and slopes and agreed with Hull on protecting them.  
 
Grandeau stated that he was present during the used car -lot presentation and that the current presentation was 
concerning him because of the fact that there wo uld be wrecks onsite that would potentially leak hazardous fluids into 
the streams. Grandeau felt that unless something could be proposed that would ensure no detriment to the nearby 
streams,  he could not support the project.  
 
Havens  noted that he wanted a  hydrant installed on the East -side of the Route 9 closer to or on the property itself.  
 
Lansing stated that he would look into it.  
 
Smith stated that he did  not want to see a junkyard or unregistered vehicles and was worried about  runoff and how  snow 
removal would be handled with so much pavement . 
 
Taylor noted that she read that the speedway was going to be redeveloped in the future and was concerned that the 
proposed use was inappropriate for the area.  
 
Lansing  acknowledged the Board ’s concerns but stated that a tow shop was allowed by zoning. Lansing also noted that 
the slope was not as deep as it was perceived on the plans with 1-foot contours instead of the standard 2-foot contours . 
Lansing also noted that stormwater  management  would be robust and would filter out pollutants.  
 
Meeting Adjournment  
 
Stephen Grandeau  MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct  of the Planning Board , SECONDED  by Frank Mazza , motion carried unanimously at 7:31  PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted by,  
 
 
 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board  Secretary  
Planning Technicia n 