
The Town of Malta Planning Board held its regular meeting on Wednes day May 29 , 2024  at 6:30 p.m. at the 
Malta Town Hall, with Co -Chairperson, John Viola  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 Dwight Havens   
 William Smith   
 Kyle Kordich   
 Ronald Bormann   
 John Viola   
 Leejun Taylor   
  
Absent:     
 
Stephen Grandeau   
Frank Mazza   
Jean Loewenstein   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Chairperson Viola  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
 
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
21-16 Mountain View Estates (Extension of Approval)  Major Subdivision  
24-09 KFC of Malta  FBC Project Plan Amendment  
24-10 Northwood Water Company  Site Plan  
24-10A Northwood Water Company  Special Use Permit  
 
 
 
Chairperson Viola  elevated William Smith  and Leejun Taylor  to full voting member s. 
 
 21-16, Mountain View Estates (Extension of Approval), Major Subdivision                   
 
Colin Lansing  of Lansing  Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant.  
 
Lansing noted that f inal approval was originally granted on 1/24/2023.  Lansing also noted that nothing had 
changed with the project since the last presentation and that f inal project plans were submitted to the 
Planning Department and are awaiting final approval signatures.  
 
Huizinga noted that the current 90-day extension e xpire d on June 18, 2024 and that the Town Board would be 
deciding on the Clifton Park Water Authority extension for the project in June.  Huizinga stated that t he 
requested extension would extend approval to September 16, 2024  in case it was needed for any unforeseen 
issues that may prevent the project from moving forward .  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
No comments were received from the Board.  
 
Resolution #2024 – 11 
 
MOTION  by William Smith  SECONDED  by Ronald Bormann  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 
29th day of May, 2024 approves a 90 -day Extension of Approval for Project #21 -16 Mountain View Estates, 
Major Subdivision extending the expiration date of June 18 , 2024 to September 16 , 2024.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Rona ld Bormann – YES; Dwight Havens  – YES; 
William Smith  – YES; Leejun Taylor  – YES; John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 5-0 
 
Kyle Kordich arrived  at 6:45 PM.  
 
24-09, KFC of Malta , Form Based Code Project Plan  Amendment                                Public Hearing  
 
Alex Rosenblum, the proprietor and f ranchisee presented for the Board. Rosenblum noted that the project was 
pretty straightforward. Rosenblum n oted that the restaurant was currently a combination KFC and Taco Bell 
that would be sepa rating in the near future. Rosenblum also noted that once Taco Bell moved out the 
remaining space would be renovated to reflect the standalone KFC that would be left over. Rosenblum stated 
that the new paint scheme would be an Earth tone scheme  and that if approved, the  work would begin in the 
Fall of 2024.    
 
Huizinga stated for the Board that the renovations would be a Form Based Code project that required a 
Project Plan application and that their role was to ask questions and make recommendations. Huizinga noted 
that the applicant had provided paint color samples  (Creamy SW 7012, Beigewood 1007, and Night  Horizon 
2134 -10) for the building to the Planning Department for the renovations that would be retained in the project 
file. Huizinga also noted that she requested that the applicant put in a sidewalk to provide pedes trian 
connectivity from Route 67 to the restaurant.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Bormann asked if the  color of the  service doors to the building could be changed to a lighter color that was 
less intense to make them  blend in with the proposed siding better.  Rosenblum stated that the color of the doors could be changed.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Viola opened the Public Hearing  at 6:39  PM. 
 
Rick Ha ndley, of 6 Danbury Drive asked if the building had sprinklers.  
 
Rosenblum  stated that the building had sprinklers.  
 
Viola closed the Public Hearing at 6:40  PM. 
 
24-10, Northwood Water Company , Site Plan                                                          
24-10A, Northwood Water Company , Special Use Permit  (SUP)                           Public Hearing  
 
Brandon Ferguson of Environmental Design Partnership ( EDP) presented for the applicant.  
 
Ferguson noted that  Northwood Water  Company  (Northwood)  was a private water company that serviced 
approximately 400 homes  along Brownell Road, East High Street, and the surrounding areas. Ferguson noted 
that Northwood wanted to connect to the  Saratoga County  Water Authority  (SCWA) water main along the Zim 
Smith Trail and decommission their wells. Ferguson noted that a Pump House was needed to maintain the 
current water pressure in the existing Northwood system. Ferguson noted that in addition to the Pump House, 
approximately 1800 feet of water main would be lain that would begin at the pump house, cross Route 67, 
continue along the East side of East Line Road, and connect to  the existing main on Brownell Road .  
 
Ferguson stated that Northwood had recently purchased the property at 432 East Line Road where the Pump 
House (PH) would be constructed, that the property was zoned C -2, that the PH would be 15x20 in size, 
located to the rear of the property away from Rout e 67, and that the property would be accessed by the 
existing curb cut on East Line Road.  
 
Huizinga noted that the PH required both Site Plan and SUP according to Town Code as a Utility Lot. Huizinga 
added that there was specific language in the Town Code  for Utility Lots and that there were no bulk 
requirements for Utility Lots for lot size, setbacks or design, making the project z oning compliant. Huizinga 
noted that the presentation was being made in order to document that the PH location , that the exist ing wells 
for Northwood would be decommissioned, and that the applicant provided additional plans showing that the 
PH would be far enough away from the proposed future NYSDOT roundabout at the intersection when and if it 
were constructed.  
 
Huizinga added that the proposed water main would create minimal disturbance since directional drilling 
would be utilized to place the proposed main and that a OPRHP Letter had been received allowing the Board 
to act on SEQRA for both the Site Plan and Spe cial Use Permit. Huizinga also noted that the applicant was 
proposing siding on the PH that would be a beige color that would match the nearby existing PHs across the 
street in Ballston.  
 
Viola asked if Engineering had been consulted for the project.  
 
Huizinga stated that she deferred to the Saratoga County Engineer since it was their water and added that a 
resolution had been passed by the SCWA to move the project forward.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Bormann asked if the building would be similar to existing pre -fabricated buildings nearby.  Ferguson stated that the proposed building would be similar  to the buildings across the street.  
 
Havens asked Ferguson to provide information on the design flows and pressures  for the proposed system 
with regards t o fire suppression . 
 
Ferguson stated that he was currently working with the Department of Healt h (DOH)  to maintain the current 
flows and pressures of the existing system.  
 
Havens asked what the specific ratings were.  
 
Ferguson noted that the current pressu re rating was between 50 -80 psi and that he did not have currently 
have the flow data with him. Ferguson added that the intention of the expansion was to maintain the current 
ratings and not increase it significantly.  
 
Havens noted that the Fire Department  would like the applicant to provide pump  pressure and flow rates  to 
allow for fire department’s needed pressure .  He wanted to make sure that the system would have enough 
flow for fire suppression.  
 
Ferguson noted that he would provide that information.  
 
Huizinga asked Havens if he was speaking on behalf of the Round Lake Fire Department or the Planning 
Board.  
 
Havens stated that he was speaking as a Planning Board member who was interested in Fire as an Engineer.  
 
Viola asked Huizinga if the proposal would be reviewed by the Fire Department.  
 
Huizinga stated that the Fire Department would be consulted to ensure that the project would provide them 
what they required.  
 
Havens noted that the Route 67 -East Line Road intersection wa s the confluence of three (3) Fire 
Departments, Ballston Fire to the West of East Line Road, Malta Ridge Fire to the North of Route 67 and East 
of East Line, and Round Lake Fire to the South of Route 67 and East of East Line.  
 
Viola asked if the proposed P H would provide water to the Town of Ballston.  
 
Ferguson stated that the proposed PH would only service customers in the Town of Malta , Northwood Water 
Company users.  
 
Smith asked if the proposed PH would decommission the existing Laural Acres Pump Station . 
 
Ferguson stated that the existing wells would be decommissioned and that the existing facilities would be 
maintained in order to have a reservoir for day storage within the system.  
 
Havens asked if there were booster pumps at the existing Laural Acres P H. 
 
Ferguson stated that there were existing booster pumps that would continue to be utilized.  
 
Smith asked if Laural Acres would have enough water pressure at the existing PH.  
 
Ferguson noted that there would be enough water pressure for the entire syste m. 
 PUBLIC HEARING  (SUP)  
 
Viola opened the Public Hearing at 6:51  PM. 
 
Barbara Conner of 200 Brownell Court asked what the timeline would be until project completion.  
 
Ferguson stated that the timeline was dependent on several factors. Ferguson noted that the timeline was 
tentatively as soon as possible but that the project needed to receive DOH approval, finalization from the 
SCWA, and approval from the Malta Planning Board.  
 
Rick Ha ndley of 6 Danbury Drive commented and stated that he wanted more inf ormation available to the 
Public when a Public Hearing  was scheduled.  Handley felt that what was available on the Town website and 
what was detailed in the provided Meeting Agenda was not informative enough to allow members of the public 
to fully understan d what was being proposed at a meeting.  
 
Shaun Flynn , Assistant Chief of the Round Lake Fire Department  wanted to know if there would be an 
automatic alarm on the building and if a Knox Box would be provided.  
 
Ferguson stated that those would be provided.  
 
Conner asked Ferguson if the proposed water system w ould be  limited to the current Northwood Water 
customers or if future developments would be serviced by the Pump House . 
 
Huizinga asked Conner to direct her questions and comments to the Planning Board and not the applicant.  
 
Conner repeated her question to the Board.  
 
Huizinga noted that Conner’s question was related to contractual agreements that would be worked out with 
the Saratoga County Water Authority and that it was not currently a purview of the  Malta Planning Board. 
Huizinga added that to her knowledge a contract was being worked out with the SCWA as the governing body 
for the project and not the Planning Board  
 
Everhart asked if the  goal of the PH was to only obtain water from the SCWA.  
 
Ferguson stated that the only water source for the entire Northwood Water system would be the  SCWA  with 
the construction of the proposed Pump House.  
 
Everhart noted for the Board that the applicant and the Saratoga County Water Authority had a public 
agree ment that included terms, conditions, and current limitations placed on the potential future expansion of 
the Northwood Water system . Everhart added that the concern about the expansion of the Northwood system 
was not a concern of the Planning Board unless  there were members who had those concerns.  
 
Bormann asked if that concern needed to be considered when an application was before the Board.  
 
Everhart stated that if the Board felt the future expansion of the system was a concern related to the Site Plan 
and Special Use Permit being proposed, they should consider that when making a decision regarding the 
approval or denial of a proposal. Everhart then asked the Board if they would want to impose any limitation on 
the expansion of the system if no limitatio n was placed on it by the SCWA.  
 
Smith noted that his only concern was related to if the proposed system would be able to handle the existing 
Northwood customers.  
 Viola stated that he did not have any interest in placing a restriction on the proposed system . 
 
No other Board members had concerns.  
 
Flynn asked Ferguson what sized main the applicant was proposing to use.  
 
Ferguson and Huizinga confirmed that the propos ed main would be 10 inches in diameter.  
 
Flynn added that he felt the applicant may need to gate down the water pressure given that the SCWA had in 
his opinion the best pressure and flow that was leaps and bounds ahead of other providers in the area.  
 
Viola closed the Public Hearing at 6:59  PM. 
 
Resolution #2024 – 12 
SEQRA  
 
MOTION  by Ronald Bormann  SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 2 9th 
day of May, 2024 determines that Project #2 4-10, Northwood Water Company , Site Plan, and Project #2 4-
10A, Northwood Water Company , Special Use Permit, are consistent with the Supplemental Town Wide GEIS 
and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  – YES; Ronald Bormann – YES; Dwight Havens  – YES; 
William Smith  – YES; Leejun Taylor  – YES; John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
 
SPECIAL USE PERMIT CRITERIA  
 
1. Is the use listed as a permitted special use in the appropriate zoning district;  
Yes. Utilit y lots and utilities are allowed in all zoning districts with a SUP.  
 
2. Conforms to the standards and design requirements specified in the Code and the Master Plan for that 
particular zone.   
Yes. Utility lots/utilities are not subject to any dimensional limitations otherwise established including lot 
coverage limitations, min imum lot size, minimum setback requirements, and minimum road frontage 
requirements.  
 
3. Will not have an undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of the neighborhood and 
surrounding areas, traffic conditions, parking, utility facilities, or  other matters affecting the public health, 
safety, welfare or convenience of the public;   
The use is consistent with the Master Plan Neighborhood 7 and §167 -22 Utility Lots.  
Clifton Park Water Authority and the Town of Ballston Water Dept. have pump hous es on the west side of 
East Line Road located between Stewart’s and the Zim Smith Tr ail. 
 
4. Will not create operations or uses that will be considered objectionable to nearby properties by reason of 
noise, fumes, vibrations, illumination or other outward eff ects on others in the zone.  
The proposed use will not create any objectionable operations.   
 
5. Complies with any other requirements within the zone;  
N/A.  No additional requirements are required in the C -2 Route 67 zone for this use.  6. Will be in harmony and promote the general purpose and intent of the Master Plan;  
Yes.  
 
7. Will not adversely affect the short -term and long -term cumulative impacts on the environment;  
The construction of the pump house will not adversely affect the short -term and long -term cumulative 
impact of the environment.  
 
8. Will be able to mitigate to the satisfaction of the Board any adverse or irreversible impacts on the 
environment, including any growth -inducing aspects of the proposed use;   
Yes. The project is subject to Town Mitigation fees such as traffic, open space and GEIS.   
 
9. Will not adversely affect unique and irreplaceable assets or resources of the area;  
The site does not contain wetlands and is not a habitat for rare, threatened or endangered species.   
The project meet s the requirements.  OPRHP stated that there were no concerns onsite.  
 
10. Will be serviced adequately (as determined by the Board) by essenti al public facilities and services, 
including, but not limited to, highways, streets, parking spaces, public transportation, police, ambulance 
and fire protection, drainage structures, solid waste management and refuse disposal, water and sewers, 
groundwate r protection, schools, energy conservation, as well as any other additional services as the 
Board deems appropriate.      
Yes. 
 
Viola felt the project would not adversely affect the short or long -term cumulative impacts on the environment  
and felt that the project met al requirements with regards to OPRHP concerns.  
 
Havens noted that he was concerned with the fact that the Pump House was being built outside of its own 
water district o n land that to his knowledge was in an area that was under contract with the Clifton Park Water 
Authority.  
 
Huizinga stated that the Pump House would not be on land that was contracted with the Clifton Park Water 
Authority  district . Huizinga added that the  proposal would create a Utility Lot  and that the Board was 
considering a Special Use Permit to build the Pump House onsite.  
 
Havens asked if the contract would be between the Saratoga County Water Authority (SCWA) and Northwood.  
 
Huizinga confirmed that t he contract would be between the SCWA and Northwood to provide water to the 
Northwood customers.  
 
Havens asked what water company would service the geographic area that the Northwood system was in if a 
new development was built that was not currently suppl ied by Northwood.  
 
Huizinga stated that any new development along the Route 67 -East Line corridor would need to approach one 
of the nearby water districts in order to obtain water since there wasn’t a “blanket water district” in place in 
that area.  
 
Havens  asked if Northwood had to go through that process.  
 
Huizinga stated that she did not know given that Northwood was simply building a Pump House to connect its 
customers to the Saratoga County Water Authority. Huizinga added that the Pump House itself woul d not be 
serviced by a water company since it was a Pump House only.  
 
Havens asked who would service the Pump House for fire suppression.  
 Huizinga noted that she felt Havens was being overly concerned with the details of matters that she could not 
provide an answer for.  
 
Ferguson noted that the property that the PH would be on was not being serviced by the Northwood district as 
it did not need water service. Ferguson added that the building itself would be the water source for the 
Northwood district , not a customer of the district.  
 
Havens asked who would provide water for fire protection on the property.  
 
Huizinga asked where the nearest fire hydrant was.  She also noted the pump house is located in the Round 
Lake Fire Department district service are a. 
 
Havens noted that there was one across the street.  
 
Huizinga noted that the hydrant was most likely serviced by the Ballston Water Department or the Clifton Park 
Water Authority.  
 
Havens asked if the PH would require a service contract with the hydrant’s water provider in order to use the 
hydrant in the event of a fire on the property.  
 
Ferguson noted that to his knowledge the water district did not decide who could use the water in a particular 
hydrant.  
 
Everhart added that it was the decision o f the particular fire district that the PH was in to decide who used a 
particular hydrant.  
 
Huizinga noted that whatever fire district was servicing the area already would service the property.  
 
Ferguson added that the existing home on the lot was serviced  by the nearby hydrant and that the same 
hydrant would also service the Pump House.  
 
Havens noted that there have been instances in the past where hydrants could not be accessed by Malta fire 
departments because the hydrants were not within Malta. Havens a dded that he wanted to make sure that 
whatever paperwork needed to be completed for fire suppression was filled out in order to affirmably answer 
question #10 of the Special Use Permit criteria.  
 
Ferguson stated that to his knowledge the property was servi ced by the Round Lake Fire Department (RLFD).  
 
Flynn confirmed that the property was serviced by the RLFD.  
 
Huizinga added that she felt if the existing home were to catch fire, it would be put out; and that the Pump 
House would also be put out if it were to catch fire.  
 
Havens noted that he did not want to get in trouble for using water that was not technically allowed to be 
utilized by the responding fire department  
 
Huizinga noted that she had never heard of a border dispute regarding fire prevention and suppression.  
 
Havens asked if there was no concern from the perspective of who could use the water then.  
 Kordich noted for Havens that if he felt there was an issue related to the use of the water then he could voice 
that when the Board moved forward to vote on the approval or denial of the Site Plan and Special Use Permit.  
Kordich added that the vote did not need to be unanimous.  
 
No other comments were received from the Board.  
 
Resolution #2024 – 13 
 
MOTION  by Kyle Kordich  SECONDED  by Ronald Bormann  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 2 9th 
day of May, 2024 approves Project # 24-10A, Northwood Water Company , Special Use Permit  and Project #24 -
10, Northwood Water Company, Site Plan  as presented :  
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  – YES; Ronald Bormann – YES; Dwight Havens  – YES; 
William Smith  – YES; Leejun Taylor  – YES; John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
 
Planning Board Business  
 
MOTION by Kyle Kordich  SECONDED  by Ronald Bormann  to accept the April 2 3, 2024  minutes.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  – YES; Ronald Bormann – YES; Dwight Havens  – YES; 
William Smith  – YES; Leejun Taylor  – ABSTAIN ; John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED with 5 YES and 1 ABSTENTION  
 
Meeting Adjournment  
 
John Viola  MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for 
the conduct  of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich , motion carried unanimously at 7:17  PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted by,  
 
 
 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary  
Planning Technicia n 