
Hall, with Co -Chairperson, John Viola  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 Jean Loewenstein   
 John Viola   
 Stephen Grandeau   
 Frank Mazza   
 Dwight Havens   
 Kyle Kordich   
  
Absent:     
William Smith   
Ronald Bormann   
Leejun Taylor   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Chairperson Viola  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
23-16 Doebler  Minor Subdivision  
23-17 Rainville  Minor Subdivision  and  
Lot Line Adjustment  
23-18 Route 9 RV and Boat Storage  Site Plan  (Concept)  
 
Planning Board Business  
 
MOTION by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Frank Mazza  to accept the August 22 , 2023  minutes.  
 
VOTE:  
 
Stephen Grandeau  – YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens - YES 
 Jean Loewenstein  - ABSTAIN   
John Viola  – YES 
 23-16, Doebler , Minor Subdivision                       Public Hearing  
 
Patrick Jarosz of VanGuilder Land Surveyors, PLLC  presented for the applicant.  
 
Jarosz noted that the site is located at 132 Knapp Road and would be subdivided into 3 Lots. Jarosz also noted that the 
property is 10.4 acres, is zoned R -1 and that all three Lots would be serviced by individu al wells and septic systems.   The 
parcel currently contains a single family residence.  
 
Jarosz also noted that Lot 1 will be 1.08 acres  and contain the existing single family home , Lot 2 will be 2.16 acres, and 
Lot 3 will be 7.18 acres.  
 
Huizinga spoke for the Planning  Department and stated that Lots 2 and 3  would be Flag Lots and meet the Town’s 
definition and regulations for Flag Lots. Huizinga noted that she felt the project would be consistent with the Town -Wide 
GEIS and Statement of F indings for SEQRA. Huizinga added that she wanted notes added to the final plats for Lots 2 and 
3 stating that they me et the Flag Lot definition adopted by the Town in 2012, and that she wanted a turn out for Lot 3. 
 
Jarosz stated that the driveway will be  less than 500’ but will note on the p lot plan stating the need for a turn out if 
driveway ends up being 500’ long.  
 
Huizinga  also noted that the Round Lake Fire Department  wanted the driveways  on Lots 2 and 3 to be 20’ wide and to 
include a pull off for f ire apparatus.  
 
Jarosz requested that he would like the driveways to be 12’ to meet code minimum since the long driveway would be 
expensive to design if it needed to be 20 feet wide.  
 
Huizinga stated that it was up to the Board to make th e final  decision  on the driveway width  and that they would require 
driveway permits from the Town Highway Department since Knapp Road is a Town road.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Loewenstein asked Jarosz how long the  new driveways would be.  
 
Jarosz stated that both Lot 2 and 3 would have driveways that were less than 500’ . 
 
Grandeau asked Jarosz to clarify his reasoning for the requested 12’ driveway.  
 
Jarosz stated it was purely based on expense.  
 
Grandeau noted that it would be difficult to drive a firetruck down such  a long, narrow driveway.  
 
Mazza asked if both driveways could be 20’ wide near the houses and asked if they would be able to withstand the 
weight of an 80,000lb firetruck . 
 
Jarosz stated that he didn’t think the driveways would be designed to hold that mu ch weight but would feature turn 
arounds that firetrucks could use.  
 
Mazza mentioned that if a firetruck needed to access the site then the driveway and yard may be dama ged by the weight 
of the trucks.   He recommended the driveway be at least 20’ wide star ting 50’ from the homes.  
 
Jarosz stated that he would make the owner aware of this.  
 
Viola noted that he felt the firetruck turnaround should be further away from the houses and that he preferred the 
driveway be 20’ wide . 
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Viola  opened the Public Hearing at 6:44  PM. No comments  were received from the public.  
 
Viola  closed the Public Hearing at 6:45  PM. 
 
Resolution #2023 – 40 
SEQRA  
 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Jean Loewenstein  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 24th 
day of October , 2023 determines that Project # 23-16, Doebler , Minor Subdivision , is consistent with the Supplemental 
Town Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  - YES 
Stephen Grandeau  – YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens - YES 
Jean Loewenstein  – YES 
John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
Resolution #2023 – 41 
 
MOTION  by Frank Mazza  SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 24th  day of 
October , 2023 approves  Project # 23-16, Doebler, Minor Subdivision , with the following conditions :  
 
1. Applicant shall add map note to the subdivision plat stating: Lots 2 and 3 meet the requirement and intent of 
Town Code §167-2 Flag Lot Definition  by L.L. No. 1 -2012.  
2. Code enforcement to confirm at time of building permit issuance that if any driveway exceeds 500’ in length that 
code compl iant turn outs be included.  
3. Well and septic designs for Lots 2 and 3 to be included at time of building permit application . 
4. Within 50’ of the houses on Lots 2 and 3 the driveways will be 2 0’ in width.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  - YES 
Stephen Grandeau  – YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens - YES 
Jean Loewenstein  – YES 
John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
 
23-17, Rainville, Minor Subdivision  & Lot Line Adjustment                    Public Hearing  
 
Gavin Vuillaume  with E nvironmental Design Partnership  present ed for the applicant.  
 
Vuillaume stated that the proposal is for a 2 Lot subdivision  and Lot Line Adjustment  located at 210 & 218 Ruhle Road 
South . Vuillaume stated that Lot  1 would be 2.37 acre s and Lot 2 would be 3.25 acres. Vuillaume also stated that both  
driveways w ould have firetruck turnarounds and that the lots would  be serviced by Clifton Park Water Authority  (CPWA) 
and the Saratoga County Sewer  District  (SCSD ). Vuillaume added that the applicant intended to supply the lots with 
public water, but alternatively would use wells if necessary.  
 
Vuillaume noted that a Lot Line Adjustment  (LLA) is proposed  to allow for the Rainville’s to keep all of the land on one 
side o f the stream that goes between their property  and the proposed Lot 2. Vuillaume added that the LLA would convey 
0.1 acres of land from 210 Ruhle Road South (Lot 2) to the remaining lands of the Rainville’s  (218 Ruhle Road South) . Huizinga spoke for the Planning Department. Huizinga noted that both proposed lots meet the R -1 zoning requirements  
and that Lot 2 is a Flag Lot. Huizinga also added that it was determined that the trees on the two lots are within  Brown 
Bat Habitat and all tree fel ling is to occur during the winter . Huizinga also added that she felt the project was consistent 
with the Supplemental Town -Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings with regards to SEQRA .  She wanted to see a Map 
Note stating that Lot 2 meets the requirements o f a Flag Lot .  
 
Additionally, Huizinga asked for Draft Easement Language for the shared driveway ; map notes on the final plans, 
driveway bump outs, Will Serve letters from the CPWA and the SCSD , updated deeds for the Rainville property  (218 Ruhle 
Rd. South ) referencing the LLA  and merger of the 0.10 acres.  A  map note shall be added to the final su bdivision map 
referencing the LLA and Flag Lot definition.  Huizinga also noted a highway driveway permit is required at the time of 
building permit for the new shared driveway curb cut.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Mazza asked the applicant to have the driveways be 20 feet wide within 50 feet of the houses.  
 
Mazza also asked the applicant to sprinkler the houses.  
 
Vuillaume  said he would do that  provided that the homes would able to be connected to public water . 
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Viola  opened the Public Hearing at 7:10  PM. 
 
No comments  
 
Viola  closed the Public Hearing at 7:11  PM. 
 
Resolution #2023 – 42 
SEQRA  
 
MOTION  by Jean Loewenstein  SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 24th  
day of October , 2023 determines that Project # 23-17, Rainville, Minor Subdivision , is consistent with the Supplemental 
Town Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  - YES 
Stephen Grandeau  – YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens - YES 
Jean Loewenstein  – YES 
John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
 
Resolution #2023 – 43 
 
MOTION  by Jean Loewenstein  SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 24th  
day of October , 2023 approves Project # 23-17, Rainville, Minor Subdivision , with the following conditions :  
 
1. Applicant shall add map note to the subdivision plat stating: Lot 2 meets the requirement and intent of town 
code  §167-2 Flag Lot Definition by L.L. No. 1 -2012.  
2. Applicant shall provide the Planning Department with draft easement language for proposed 60’ wide 
ingress/egress access easement over Lots 1 and 2. 
3. Final plat to comply with NYS state fire code §551.2 . 
4. Will serve letters  from Saratoga County Sewer  Distric t and Clifton Park Water  Authority  5. Applicant shall provide updated  deed  for 218 Ruhle Road South (240. -1-65) with meets and bounds indicating 
the conveyance and merger of the 0.1 acre area of land from 210 Ruhle Road South (240. -1-4.21)   
6. Final Plat to incl ude map note making clear that 0.1 acres of land will be merged into the remaining lands of 
Rainville at 218 Ruhle Road South.  
7. Within 50 feet of homes on Lots 1 and 2, driveway s shall be at least 20’ wide.  
8. If the site is served by public water, the homes will be protected with a minimum NFPA 13D compliant automatic 
fire sprinkler system.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  - YES 
Stephen Grandeau  – YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens - YES 
Jean Loewenstein  – YES 
John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
 
23-18, Route 9 RV & Boat Storage, Site Plan (Concept)                
 
Scott Lansing of Lansing Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant.  
 
Lansing noted that the parcel is located at 2389 US Route 9, immediately  North of Afrim’s Sports. Lansing also noted 
that the driveway for the site will line up with Knabner Road, that the property is zoned C -2, and that there are no 
wetlands  onsite . Lansi ng added that  all but one of the current structure s will be demolished, with the remaining structure 
being  used as an office. Lansing stated that the new construction will comprise o ne, 38,000 SF facility  that would  be built 
with no water or sewer due to i ts use. Lansing added that v egetative screening would be featured in front of the facility  to 
shield it from view along Route 9 , and that the applicant is proposing 5 parking space along the West side of the facility.  
 
Huizinga spoke for the Planning Depar tment and noted that  the design w ould need to follow C -2 Zoning Commercial 
Corridor guidelines. Huizinga also noted that the original proposal included a Speci al Use Permit application that  was 
later determined to be unnecessary . Huizinga noted that she wanted a more detailed landscaping and design plan to be 
submitted, asked for a sidewalk to be constructed along Route 9 , and that a Traffic  trip generation  assessment would be 
needed for the project.   
 
Huizinga also added that a SEQRA determination could not be made at this time because a SHPO Letter had not yet been 
received by Planning .  She also noted that the Round Lake Fire Department  wanted the building to have a sprinkler 
system , requiring the facility to have water. Huizinga also noted Engineering comments and stated that they were limited 
to the project requiring a Traffic assessment , Fire Apparatus Turning Plan , SWPPP, and that the facility would need to 
meet NYS Fire Code.  
 
Huizinga also wanted more greenspace on the site and suggested eliminatin g two storage spaces at the rear of the 
facility to allow for more greenspace.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Loewenstein asked if parking requirements would be identified in the Traffic Study.  
 
Lansing noted that the Traffic study would identify parking requirements . 
 
Loewenstein asked how the building would be accessed.  
 
Lansing explained that the facility would be accessed at the will of its tenants through exterior garage bay entrances on 
the North and South sides of the facility.  
 
Kordich asked if the entire facility would be enclosed.  Lansing noted that the facility would be enclosed with  bay entrances on the North and South of the facility only.  
Kordich also noted that he  wanted the parking relocated if possible and  felt more greenspace  and making the facility 
aesthetically appealing  would be beneficial . 
Huizinga noted that she wanted the Board to consider the facility being fenced in.  
 
Grandeau asked if the facility would be heated or have drainage.  
 
Lansing noted that the applicant hadn’t decided on that.  
 
Grandeau also felt that the building should be sprinkled since there would be multiple vehicles onsite that created a 
significant fire hazard.  
 
Mazza asked for a hydrant onsite to al low for fire prevention.  
 
Havens also wanted sprinklers for the facility due to the stored vehicles being made of mostly plastic and other 
flammable materials.  
 
Havens also noted that not protecting the building with automatic fire sprinklers would likely increase the required fire 
flow needed to extinguish fires onsite because they would need to be handled manually.  
 
Lansing stated that he would look into this.  
 
Viola asked Lansing to look into the fire prevention requirements. Viola also asked how the bui lding would be structured.  
 
Lansing noted that each bay would have a 20x50 enclosed individual area.  
 
Meeting Adjournment  
 
Jean Loewenstein  MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau , motion carried unanimously at 7:34  PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted by,  
 
 
 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary  
Planning Technicia n 