
The Town of Malta Planning Board  held its regular meeting on  Tuesday, November 19 , 2024  at 6:30 p.m. at the Malta 
Town Hall, with Co -Chairperson, Jean Loewenstein  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 John Viola  
 Jean Loewenstein  
 Dwight Havens   
 William Smith   
 Kyle Kordich   
 Stephen Grandeau   
 Frank Mazza   
  
Absent:     
 
Leejun Taylor   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Chairperson Loewenstein  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
24-17 Taupin, LLC  (24 Oak Road ) Lot Line Adjustment  
24-16 & 24 -16A 2272 Route 9 Senior Apartments  Phase II  Site Plan Amendment & Special Use Permit  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chairperson Loewenstein  elevated William Smith  to full voting member  status . 
 
 
 
 
 
 Prior to the beginning of the Taupin, LLC presentation, John Viola recused himself since he is a neighbor of the applicants.  
 
24-17, Taupin, LLC (24 Oak Road), Lot Line Adjustment                Public Hearing      
 
Scott Lansing presented for the applicant and  stated for the Board that the property at 24 Oak Road Parcel ID: 218.5 -1-
8.2 was bisected by 0.682 + acres (ac) of Parcel ID: 218.5 -1-8.1 (Oak Road). Lansing noted that 24 Oak Road was currently 
4.13 ac and the entirety of the Oak Road parcel was 4.33 ac. Lansing stated that the Lot Line Adjustment (LLA) proposal 
would convey the land from the Oak Road parcel that bisected the 24 Oak Road parcel to 24 Oak Road . Lansing noted that 
this conveyance would allow 24 Oak Road to be one contiguous area instead of t wo separate, land hooked areas as they 
currently existed. The new area of 24 Oak Road would be 4.81 ac and the new area of the paper streets would be 3.65 ac.  
 
Huizinga spoke for Planning and noted that with the LLA , the removal of the Paper Street would m ake things much easier 
from the perspective of Building and Planning. Huizinga also noted that th e lot consolidation would make placing a single -
family  home on the lot much easier with the elimination of the paper street that currently bisected the propert y. Huizinga 
added for the Board that the property would have access via the front section of Oak Road that was owned by the Saratoga 
Lake Association HOA . She recommended a map inset be added to the plans to provide the full aspect of what the LLA 
includes . Huizinga also outlined that she wanted draft deeds and descriptions provided upon finalization and to have the 
final maps filed with the County Clerk. Huizinga also noted that she felt the project was consistent with the Town wide  
Supplemental GEIS and S tatement of Findings, therefore meriting no further SEQR review.  
 
BOARD  DISCUSSION  
 
No comments from the Board were received.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Chairperson Loewenstein OPENED the Public Hearing at 6:39  PM 
 
No comments from the Public were received.  
 
Chairperson Loewenstein CLOSED the Public Hearing at 6:40  PM 
 
Resolution #2024 – 23 
SEQRA  
 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Frank Mazza  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 19th day of 
November, 2024 determines that Project #24 -17, Taupin, LLC, Lot Line Adjustment is consistent with the Supplemental 
Town Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich – YES; Stephen Grandeau – YES; Frank Mazza – YES;  
Dwight Havens  – YES; William Smith  – YES; Jean Loewenstein  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6 to 0.  
 
Resolution #2024 – 24 
 
MOTION  by Kyle Kordich  SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 19th day of 
November, 2024 approves Project #24 -17, Taupin, LLC, Lot Line Adjustment with the following conditions : 
 
1. The applicant shall add a map inset to the plan depicting the area of the paper streets associated with Parcel ID: 
218.5 -1-8.1 (Oak Road).  
2. The 0.682± acres conveyed from Parcel 218.5 -1-8.1 (Oak Road) to 24 Oak Road (Parcel 218.5 -1-8.2) must be 
merged.  
3. The applicant must p rovide draft Deeds and Meets and  Bounds for planning review and upon finalization, the 
documents are to be filed with the final Lot Line Adjustment plat with the County Clerk.  VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich – YES; Stephen Grandeau – YES; Frank Mazza – YES;  
Dwight Havens  – YES; William Smith  – YES; Jean Loewenstein  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6 to 0.  
 
Viola returned after the Taupin, LLC presentation and prior to the 2272 Route 9 presentation.  
 
24-16 & 24 -16A, 2272 Route 9 Senior Apartments, Site Plan Amendment  & Special Use Permit         Public Hearing (SUP)  
 
Scott Lansing presented for the applicant and stated that the project is located at the corner of Route 9 and the Round 
Lake bypass. Lansing also noted that the project was originally before the Board in 2023 and approved Site Plan and 
Special Use Permit  (SUP)  approval for Phase 1 in February 2024. Lansing stated that the project being presented for the 
Board was for Phase 2 and that since the original approval the zoning for the project site had changed from C -9 and R -1 to 
C-9 only. Lansing noted that the zoning change allowed for the expansion of the project to include the proposed Phase 2. 
Lansing noted that the complex would have 88 units in total, but that the applicant wanted to change the Ph ase 1 building 
to have 44 units instead of 48, allowing the two buildings to have 44 units equally and to be identical in size and design.  
 
Lansing stated that the initial stages of the project were underway with the demolition of the original structures onsite and 
site grading. Lansing also stated that the project site was 6.31 ac with some onsite ACOE wetlands towards the center of 
the site.  Lansing noted that the Phase 2 building would have an access via a private drive that would connect to the 
Northwe st corner of the parking lot of Phase 1 to be aligned with the site access, wrap around the onsite wetlands, and 
terminate at the rear of the property where the Phase 2 building and parking lot was proposed to be located.  
 
Lansing noted that there would b e at least 2 parking spaces per unit as per Town code, with 190 spaces proposed (176 
required). Lansing added that the project met all code requirements and that the proposed amenities would include an 
expansion of the trail system that is part of Phase 1 that would loop around the Phase 2 building and allow for a loop 
around the entire parcel, lights, trees, and a gazebo. Lansing stated that the project would only cover 25.1% of the lot area , 
well under the maximum of 50% , that the project would manage sto rmwater onsite with a retention basin to the North of 
the newly proposed building .  The site would be serviced by public water and sewer. Lansing stated that he had received 
engineering comments and that they would be answered before the next presentation to the Board .   A report from Hartgen 
Archeological Associates state s the project site contained no archeologically sensitive areas.  
 
Huizinga spoke for Planning, and stated for the Board that the applicant was before the Board for the proposal of Building 
#2, which is a 3-story building  and asked Lansing to provide renderings for the building. Huizinga also stated that she had 
comments related to the proposed ameni ty spaces onsite and requested that it be made more robust  with benches along 
the trail, a more attractive bio -retention area, more gathering areas similar to Building #1, a bike rack .  She asked how mail 
was going to be handled for the property, either at a shared location or distributed to the tenants individually.  
 
Huizinga also noted that she wanted Lansing to change some of the Landscape plantings  to native plants. A n updated 
traffic assessment with Phase 2 incorporated should be provided prior to the n ext submission . She also asked that  post 
construction O&M cost analysis be added to the  SWPPP for longer term maintenance and operation.  She noted that the 
applicant would need to update  their existing  wetland disturbance permit to include the additional 0.05 ac of  disturbance. 
Huizinga added that her c omments about the SUP were the same as Phase #1 and noted that the traffic assessment report 
should be submitted  prior to a Board decision  on the SUP . 
 
Hull spoke for Engineering  and noted that most of his comments were related to touching up a few minor inconsistencies 
on the site plan, but also noted that he wanted to see an expansion of the ADA parking on -site since the project was being 
proposed with more parking than required  and since it would be a senior living facility. Hull also noted that he wanted to 
see the updated traffic analysis, fire apparatus access plans, and water and sewer Will Serve letters.  
 
Loewenstein asked Huizinga if the Public Hearing was separate from th e Site Plan Amendment.  
 
Huizinga stated that they were separate.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  Havens noted that he appreciated the emergency access plan  that Lansing provided  and asked if the exact route of how 
fire hoses would be laid out to reach the building from the fire hydrant so the fire department would not potentially run out 
of hose in the event of a fire. Havens also asked Lansing to explain how fire personnel would access the upper levels of 
the building  and asked if there would be standpipes inside the bu ilding.  
 
Lansing noted for Havens that he needed to look into Haven’s comments further before he could answer his questions  and 
noted that he could add an additional hydrant to help with fire protection.  
 
Viola asked where the proposed hydrants would be.  
 
Lansing stated that 2 were proposed, one at the Northeast  corner of Building # 1 and the second along the proposed access 
road to the N orthwest  of the proposed gazebo . Lansing stated that a third hydrant would be added in front of the second 
building.  
 
Grandeau asked if the  entrance to the  proposed  building could fit an ambulance and asked if the  elevators could handle 
a stretcher . 
 
Lansing  stated that he needed to look into those matters further.  
 
Mazza  asked  where would snow be stored . 
 
Lansing noted that snow would be piled to the North and West of the proposed parking lot, but that the details would be 
provided before the next submission.  
 
Smith asked what kind of buf fering would be provided for the neighbors to the North of the property.  
 
Lansing noted that the existing  wooded area to the North of the access road for the property would be used as screening 
to the North and that a buffer of existing vegetation along th e remainder of the Northern boundary of the property would 
be kept as a vegetative buffer.  
 
Smith asked what would be used as a buffer along the access road if the existing vegetation were to be cut down if the 
neighboring property to the North would be developed since it was technically a 60’ wide access for the neighboring 
property that got larger towards the rear.  
 
Lansing  stated that there was no plan to provide vegetation along that area since the access road was planned as being 
along the Northern b oundary of the property and because the existing vegetation off the property was deemed to be 
appropriate as a buffer during Phase #1 approval.  
 
Lowenstein asked if the ADA parking could be moved closer to the building  
 
Lansing  stated that the parking coul d be moved . 
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Chairperson Loewenstein OPENED the Public Hearing at 7:08  PM 
 
Shaun Flynn assistant chief of the RLFD thanked Lansing for his efforts , echoed Haven’s  and Viola’s  comments and asked  
for Knox Box locations and  if it could be possible to allow for 360-degree access to Building #2.  
 
Laura Caton of 2241 US Route 9  was concerned about  the side-yard setbacks for the property and asked Lansing what 
they were.  
Lansing  stated that the  minimum side-yard setback is 50’ and that the project met the requirement.  
 
No other comments from the Public . 
 
Chairperson Loewenstein left the Public Hearing open until a later date.  
 Lansing stated that he had no questions but noted that  the access to B uilding #2 met fire code and that there would be a 
sidewalk going around the building as a form of emergency access even though it wasn’t vehicular access in the rear. 
Lansing also noted that he would be seeking a minimum of a SEQRA determination at the ne xt meeting in December.  
 
Planning Board Business  
 
MOTION by John Viola  SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau  to accept the October 22, 2024  minutes.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich – YES; Stephen Grandeau – YES; Frank Mazza – ABSTAIN ;  
Dwight Havens  – YES; William Smith  – YES; Jean Loewenstein  – YES; John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 6 YES 1 ABSTENTION.  
 
Meeting Adjournment  
 
Stephen Grandeau  MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct  of the Planning Board , SECONDED  by Frank Mazza , motion carried unanimously at 7:14  PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted by,  
 
 
 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board  Secretary  
Planning Technicia n 