 
The Town of Malta Planning Board held its regular meeting on Tuesday, October 22, 2024 at 6:30 p.m. at the Malta Town 
Hall, with Co-Chairperson, Jean Loewenstein presiding:  Present:   
 
 John Viola   Jean Loewenstein   Dwight Havens  
 William Smith  
 Kyle Kordich   Stephen Grandeau    Absent:     
 
Leejun Taylor  Frank Mazza  
 Correspondence:  All corre spondence is on file. 
 Chairperson Loewenstein read the following agenda into the minutes:  
Project # Project Name Project Type 
24-15 Parker Truck Repair/Towing (2653 US Route 9) Site Plan 
 Chairperson Loewenstein elevated William Smith to full voting member status. 
 Planning Board Business 
 MOTION by John Viola  SECONDED  by Jean Loewenstein to accept the September 24, 2024 minutes.  
 
VOTE:     
Kyle Kordich – YES; Stephen Grandeau  – ABSTAIN; Dwight Havens – YES;  
William Smith – YES; Jean Loewenstein – YES; John Viola – YES 
 Motion CARRIED 5 YES 1 ABSTENTION.     
24-15, Parker Truck Repair/Towing (2653 US Route 9), Site Plan                                      
 
Scott Lansing spoke on behalf of the applicant.  Lansing stated that his primary objective was to update the Bo ard since the previous meeting.  Lansing reiterated the site 
details for the project and surrounding properties from the prev ious meeting. Lansing noted th at trucks and fire apparatus 
could navigate the site by looping around the property, and that  parking would be in the rear of the site. Lansing also noted 
that since the site would disturb less than an acre of land, a full SWPPP wasn’t needed. Lansing added that despite a 
SWPPP being unnecessary for the project, there would be stor mwater management practices (SMPs) onsite. Lansing noted 
for the Board that the necessary front-yar d setback variance needed for the projec t was obtained from the Zoning Board 
of Appeals in October. Lansing also stated that the proposed l ayout for the site shrunk from the original proposal to allow 
for less pavement and to provide more protection to th e slope behind the proposed building and parking lot. 
 Lansing stated that the proposed stormwater management syst em was designed for a 2-year storm that could handle 6.21 
inches of rain. Lansing noted that he felt a 2-year storm ca pable system was sufficient since the majority of pollutants 
would be washed away in the first 0.5 inches of rain. Lansing al so felt the proposed system was sufficient since the 2-year 
storm rainfall amount was more than 5 times the amount of r ain that would wash away the majority of any sediment and 
pollutants generated by the project. Lansing added that water service would be extended across Route 9 to allow for the 
project to be on public water and to allow for a hydrant on the East-side of Route 9 (as per the Board’s request). Lansing 
also noted that the original layout of the building included an  office in the middle of the facility that was decreased to a 
smaller 10x10 office that would be along the East-side of the building to allow for easier access to customers and noted 
that a picnic table and bike rack would be a dded to the site for a required amenity space. 
 Huizinga spoke for Planning and noted that Lansing answered most of her qu estions and added that the Town Water 
Department wanted a larger than required waterline for the pr oject that would cross Route 9 in the event there would be 
additional development on the East-side of the road. Huizin ga also noted that Board member Frank Mazza, who could not 
be at the meeting, expressed his concerns to her that he didn’t want the site to look like a junkyard and wanted a fence 
installed onsite and was concerned abou t fluids reaching the nearby stream. Huizinga added that Mazza was also 
concerned about vehicles leaving the paved area and wanted to know what kind of protections would be installed to prevent 
that from happening.  Hull spoke for Engineering. Hull noted that like Lansing stat ed, a full SWPPP wasn’t needed, but that he was requesting 
information that was in essence a SWPPP. Hull also noted that the onsite wetlands would be subject to new regulations in 
2025 and added that there were 3 clauses that would allow the project to be “grandfathered” and subject to the existing 
2024 regulations. Hull noted that the 3 clauses were; 1. The a cceptance of a full Environmental Impact Statement, 2. A 
negative declaration on the project, and 3.  Receiving Site Plan approv al before the end of the year. Hull added that if the 
project was not subject to one of the three clauses by the end of the year, it may run into other issues in 2025 with the 
new regulations. Hull also noted that he wanted to see a traffic assessment submitted and reviewed prior to Engineering 
sign-off on the project.  Loewenstein asked Huizinga if the project could re ceive a SEQRA determinatio n without OPRHP guidance. 
 Huizinga stated that the project would need to be on hold with regards to SEQRA until OPRHP guidance was received. 
 BOARD DISCUSSION 
 Grandeau asked if the business would pick up wrecks off of the highway. 
 Lansing stated that the business would be for that purpos e in addition to other heavy truck repair and maintenance 
services.  Grandeau noted that he was concerned with the trucks leaking fluids onsite since they were  larger and in wrecks. Grandeau 
also noted that he was concerned with snow removal and felt  that the project would cause stored snow runoff to become 
heavily contaminated with oils and fluids when the snow melted. 
 
Lansing noted for Grandeau that all fluids inside the facility would be collected via a floor drain with an oil-water separator  
and that all fluids outdoors would be collected via th e SMP and properly treated per NYSDEC requirements. Grandeau stated that he would like to  see more details regarding the SMP prio r to making a decision on the project. 
 Lansing agreed to provide more details.  Smith stated that he wanted to see as much landscaping as possible to hide the site from the public. Smith suggested trees and potentially berms to camouflage the site from the road. Smith also asked Lansing if new trees would be planted 
onsite since the existing trees were in poor condition and if there were plan s to install bollards to prevent vehicles from 
rolling off the slope.  Lansing stated that the majority of the project would be in the already cleared area onsite and that new plantings would 
be utilized. Lansing added that bollards weren’t being proposed  because the site’s pavement would be sloped towards the 
building and because there would be  a 10-20’ shelf behind the parking lot that would protect the slope. 
 Smith asked Lansing how fire apparatus would navigate the site and if the building would be sprinklered or not. 
 Lansing stated that an apparatus access plan would be provided  and that the proposed setup would allow for fire apparatus 
to loop around the building if needed and that the building would not be sprinklered since it did not meet the size 
requirements to necessitate sprinkling the facility. Lansing also added that the proposed onsite hydrant would provide 
adequate water for fire protection.  Smith asked if the vehicles from the old site would be transf erred to the new site and noted that he did not want the new 
facility to become a junkyard.  Lansing stated that he felt they would be transferred sinc e the applicant was seeking to relocate to the new facility. 
 Viola added that the facility becoming a junkyard was a big concern for the Board,  and asked Huizinga if there was an 
ordinance for storing unlicensed vehicles in Malta. 
 Huizinga noted that there was an ordinance for properties, bu t does not apply to commercial businesses that are in this 
type of business.  Viola noted that there still wasn’t an answer to the question  of if the facility would be utilized for storage or not. 
 Huizinga noted that the proposal was for a repair shop, not lo ng-term storage. Huizinga asked Leah if the Board could limit 
storage of vehicles as a condition of approval.  Everhart noted that she was unfamiliar with what the Town’s code stated about vehicle stor age, and added that it would 
be the responsibility of code enforcemen t to handle that, not the Planning Board.  Everhart reminded the Board that they 
should only be concerned with aesthetics relating to buffers and fencing to alleviate the conc erns that the Board has about 
the facility looking like a junkyard.  Viola asked if there was no ordinance, co uld the Board make a condition of approv al that would limit how long vehicles 
could be stored and prevent vehicles from being stripped down to create a junkyard. 
 Everhart stated that the Board could state that “any vehicles that are parked at the site be parked in a designated parking 
area” to alleviate the concern of the facility looking disord erly and offensive like a junkyard instead of a repair shop. 
Everhart added that the Board could also require the applicant to  adhere to the Site Plan appr oval by not allowing them to 
park things long-term outs ide of designated areas. 
 Viola asked if vehicles could be parked betw een the front of the building and Route 9. 
Huizinga stated that technically vehicles could be parked in the front of the facili ty, but that Lansing noted that the lane in  
front of the facility would be prim arily used for vehicle circulation. 
 Viola noted that he did not want to  see vehicle storage from Route 9. 
Everhart asked if parking itself was an issue or if st oring vehicles to be repaired out front was the issue. 
 Viola noted that the storage of wrecks or vehicles  to be repaired were what concerned the Board. Everhart stated that the Board could enact a prohibitio n of overnight parking in the font of the facility. 
 Smith added that parking vehicles out front could prevent fire apparatus from  adequately navigating the property. 
 Lansing noted that he would look into th e details regarding fire access and stated  that the applicant wanted to use the 
front laneway for vehicle circulation and not parking. Lansing added that all parking would be in the rear of the facility and 
that he would speak with the applicant to confirm the details that were concerns fo r the Board. Lansing also added that he 
didn’t think the applicant wanted to fence the site and noted that he would speak with his la ndscape architects to enhance 
the proposed plantings to screen th e property as much as possible. 
 Everhart asked Viola if the Board would want  to require a condition of approval that  prohibited the dismantling of vehicles 
outdoors.  Viola noted that his concerns were related to aesthetics and fire service access.  
 Lansing noted that fire apparatus would have full access by looping around the building.  
 Loewenstein noted that aesthetics were as important to her as pulling the building away from the slope was. Loewenstein 
also asked if Lansing was protecting the slope by not dist urbing them and reducing the footprint of the facility.  
 Lansing stated that the decreased footprint moving the faci lity away from the slope was how the applicant planned to 
protect the slope.  Loewenstein asked Lansing if he had any questions for the Bo ard since the project couldn’t move forward without OPRHP 
guidance.  
Lansing noted for the Board that he needed to change the propos ed waterline for the facility to  an 8-inch line instead of a 
6-inch line, that he needed to provide a traffic assessment for Engineering, and he  understood that the project needed to 
be completed prior to the end of the year if the applicant wanted the project to be subject to the 2024 NYSDEC wetland 
regulations.  Smith asked Lansing if the applicant wanted to use the rear of the property on the other side of the onsite ravine like a 
previous applicant wanted to when they  brought a proposal before the Board. 
 Lansing stated that the applicant had no intentions to use the area to the rear of the property beyond the ravine. 
 Hull noted for Grandeau and the Board that he wanted La nsing to add a narrative that detailed the stormwater 
management practice (SMP) to alleviate co ncerns. Hull added that he would review ev erything as usual, but wanted to see 
those details for the Board.  Lansing stated that he wo uld furnish Hull’s request. 
 Prior to adjournment Huiz inga noted for the Board that the November and December Planning Board meetings would be a 
week early, on November 19
th and December 17th. 
 Meeting Adjournment 
 Stephen Grandeau MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Jean Loewenstein, motion carried unanimously at 7:14 PM. 
 Respectfully submitted by,    
David E. Jaeger, Jr. 
Planning Board Secretary Planning Technician 