
The Town of Malta Planning Board held its regular meeting on Tuesday July 25, 2023 at 6:30 p.m. at the Malta Town Hall, 
with Co-Chairperson, Jean Loewenstein presiding: 
Present:  
Leejun Taylor 
William Smith 
Stephen Grandeau 
Jean Loewenstein 
Dwight Havens  
Frank Mazza 
Absent:  
John Viola 
Ronald Bormann  
Kyle Kordich 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file. 
Chairperson Loewenstein read the following agenda into the minutes: 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
20-10 Malta Montessori  Site Plan  
22-21 Stein  Site Plan  
23-08 Stein  Special Use Permit  
Chairperson Loewenstein elevated William Smith and Leejun Taylor to full voting members. 
Planning Board Business  
MOTION by Frank Mazza  SECONDED  by William Smith to accept the June 28, 2023 minutes. 
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES 
Jean Loewenstein – YES 
20-10, Malta Montessor i, Site Plan
Scott Lansing presented on behalf of the applicant. 
Lansing noted that the project was before the Planning Board on 5 /26/2020 before it was tabled by the applicant until a 
later date. Lansing also noted that since the project was tabled, the applicant had purchased the property and was read y 
to move forward. Lansing stated that the project site was 4.03 acres and zoned C-7. Lansing also stated that there were 
1.07 acres of Army Corps. of Engineers (ACOE) wetlands on the site to the North of the proposed structure and that there 
was an archeological site on the property that would not be impacted by the construction. 
Lansing noted that the proposed structure would be a single story, 12,523 SF educational facility with one-way access on 
Cramer Road. Lansing also noted that the site would include 34 parking spaces, two fenced in playground areas to the 
West and East of the building, and a sidewalk system that would connect the front of the building to Cramer Road and 
Route 9. Lansing also noted the onsite monument in the Southeast corner of the property and stated that it would not be 
disturbed. Lansing noted that the project would be served by public water and sewer, and that all stormwater 
management would be contained onsite in the Southeast corner of the property. 
Huizinga noted for the Board that she felt SEQRA was consistent with the Town-wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and 
that the project site was zoned PDD #54 and C-7. Huizinga also asked Lansing for specific details on the protection of the 
onsite monument and wanted to see landscaping plans for parking lot screening and a buffer along Route 9. Huizinga 
also noted that Lansing had addressed neighbor concerns about onsite lighting and committed to a plan where the 
onsite exterior lighting would only be on between 7 AM and 6 PM when it was seasonably needed. 
Reuben Hull of LaBella Associates noted that his comments were limited to stormwater management and fire prevention 
concerns. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
Loewenstein asked if the 2020 Traffic Study was still accurate for 2023. 
Hull noted that the 2020 Traffic Study was sufficient. 
Loewenstein also asked about concerns about site distances on Route 9. 
Huizinga noted that these concerns were answered in the Traffic Study. 
Grandeau asked if the proposed playground areas would be fenced in or not and how Fire Apparatus would access the 
rear of the building. 
Lansing noted that the playground areas would be fenced in and that the building would be sprinkled since Fire 
Apparatus access to the rear of the building would not be possible. 
Grandeau asked Lansing how many students would be in the building. 
Lansing noted that he was unsure. 
Alana Moran of VHB noted that there was an estimate of 144 students. 
Mazza asked how Fire personnel would access the building on foot in the Winter since there were no sidewalks proposed 
for the rear of the building. 
Lansing noted that sidewalks around the building were not proposed and that the area around the building would be flat 
with a 5x5 landing pad around each entrance. 
Mazza also asked how much space was between the parking lot and the front of the building. 
Lansing noted that the distance from the edge of the pavement to the building was thirty (30) feet. 
Havens ask ed if fire code required addit ional sidewalks to connect egress points to the onsite sidewalks. 
Lansing stat ed that he need ed to speak wit h the applicant about the matter and that they wo uld be installed if it was 
requir ed by the NY S Office of Child and Family Servic es (OCFS). 
Smit h ask ed what class t he Cramer R oad Route 9 intersection was considered. 
Alana Mor an of VH B not ed that a capacity analysis was not complet ed in the traffic study for the intersection give n the 
size of the land use. 
Smit h also ask ed about sit e distances. 
Mora n not ed that there would be no issues wit h site distanc es if the roadside vegetation were properly maintain ed along 
Route 9 at the intersection. 
Loewenstei n ask ed if the pla n had bee n reviewed by t he Fire Department. 
Lansing stat ed that he thought the plan had bee n submitted. 
Everhart not ed that she felt the project had two options moving forward. 1) I f the project were approv ed in its current 
form and additional sidewalks were eventually required, the applicant wo uld need to come back to the Board in the 
future for a Site Pl an Amendment. Or 2) the approv al be tabled until confirmation had bee n receiv ed that additional 
sidewalks wer e requir ed or not. 
Lansing felt that an alternative option wou ld be to approve the project as is and add a construction addendum for the 
sidewalks in the future if they ultimately were required. 
Everhart ask ed Lansing to clarify, specifically if he felt the change c ould be done administratively. 
Lansing confirm ed this. 
Huizinga added that minor chang es such as the sidewalk concer n could be handl ed administratively. 
Everhart ask ed Lansing if there was a minimum widt h sidewalk that w ould need to be installed. 
Lansing not ed that the minimum widt h sidewalk was 3 feet, but that he would typically install a 5 foot wide sidewalk 
because it was a more comfortable widt h pat h to traverse. Lansing also not ed that the egress concerns wo uld be for the 
project architects to consider, not his firm. 
Hull add ed that he want ed the stormwater managem ent plan to be m odified to handle the additional impervious 
sidewalks if the change was anticipat ed to happen. 
Lansing stat ed that he would docum ent that in the stormwater management plan. 
Loewenstei n ask ed Lansing to clarify what he said. 
Lansing stat ed that the stormwater management p lan w ould be m odified to include the additional hardscapes in the 
calculations. 
Grand eau asked if the wetlands at t he Northwest corner of the building wo uld be impact ed if a sidewalk were installed to 
wrap ar ound the building. 
Lansing not ed that there wo uld be enoug h room for the sidewalk to be installed if it were needed. 
Loewenstei n ask ed Huizinga if a condition of approv al cou ld be plac ed on the project bas ed on the confirmation of if 
additional sidewalks being need ed by the Fire Department. 
Huizinga noted that this could be the case. 
Resolution #2023 – 31 
SEQRA 
MOTION by Frank Mazza SECONDED by Stephen Grandeau to resolve that the Malt a Planning Board on the 25t h day of 
July, 2023 determines that Project # 20-10, Malta Montessor i, Site Plan, is consist ent with the Supplementa l Tow n Wide 
GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
VOTE: 
Leejun Taylor - YES 
Dwight Havens – YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Stephen Grandeau - YES 
William Smith – YES 
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
Resolution #2023 – 32 
MOTION  by Jean Loewenstein SECONDED  by Frank Mazza to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 25th day of 
July, approves Project # 20-10, Malta Montessori, Site Plan , with the following conditions: 
1.That the 7.20. 2023 LaBella Associates Comment Letter be fully addressed.
2.That all correspondence from the Fire Company regarding access be obtained.
3.That the final stormwater management plans will include the calculations for the potential for additional hardscapes
to allow for improved onsite fire access.
VOTE: 
Leejun Taylor - YES 
Dwight Havens – YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Stephen Grandeau - NO 
William Smith – YES 
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
Motion CARRIED 5-1 
Prior to the beginning of the Stein presentations, Chairperson Loewenstein left the meeting and appointed William Smith 
as Chairman of the Board for their presentations. 
22-21, Stein , Site Plan
Scott Lansing of Lansing Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant. 
Lansing detailed the project for the Board. The proposed structure would be a mixed use retail and multi-family 3 story, 
62,654 SF building with approximately 7,700 SF being dedicated to retail use along the front of the building. 
Lansing noted that access would be from Rt. 67 and East Line Road via private roads with the primary access on Route 
67 with secondary on East Line. Lansing also noted that the project would feature 227 parking spaces, more than the 
required 226 spaces, that the parcel featured 64.5% greenspace, greater than the required 40%, that the project would 
be served by public utilities, and that stormwater would be managed onsite. 
Lansing noted that a Traffic Impact Study was prepared and submitted and that there were no archeological concerns 
from OPRHP. Lansing also noted that OPRHP ask ed about how the historic al church/schoolhouse onsite w ould be 
stabilized and maint ained in the future, and that Sarat oga County Planning approv ed the project after seeking additional 
information. 
Lansing detailed the County’s request and not ed that it relat ed to having the East Line Road access chang ed to a Righ t-In 
Right-Out access and an alternative location that relocated it further North. Lansing not ed that if the East Line access 
were mov ed further North, it wo uld disturb the NYSDEC 100 foot buffer zone for the onsite wetlands.  
Lansing add ed that the DE C wo uld not issue permits for an access wit hin the buffer zone unless a concret e plan with 
secure funding had bee n receiv ed from NYSDOT for the intersection to be chang ed to a roundabout. Lansing also added 
that the County accept ed the East Line access where it was currently propos ed but want ed to suggest the alternative to 
alleviate traffic concerns.  
Lansing not ed that a second comm ent from the County was to relocate the Route 67 access to the Southeast corner of 
the property and that the applicant was willing to satisfy the request. Lansing add ed that wit h the request to relocate the 
Route 67 access, the County also request ed that an access easement to the project parcel b e provid ed for neighbor to 
the East to use the new driveway to eliminate t he extr a curb cut on Route 67. Lansing also stat ed that the applicant 
agree d to the County’s request that they be willing to work wit h the DOT to allow them to take some of the applicant’s 
land to construct the roundabout if it is in fact constructed. 
Lansing not ed that an additional comm ent from the County was for a Will Serv e Letter for water service to the property. 
Lansing not ed that the applicant was working wit h Northwood Water Servic es to secure water for the site. 
Lansing also stat ed that t he ownership of East L ine was questioned and that the Malt a Tow n Highway Superintendent 
stated that the road was entirely own ed by the Tow n of Ballston. Lansing stat ed a licens ed land surveyor had determined 
that the road was ow ned by bot h Ballston and Malta wit h the property line going down the middle of the road. 
Huizinga noted that Lansing address ed most of her concerns, and that she wanted a building height reduction for the 
structure and suggest ed a flat roo f with an updat ed rendering being submitt ed to Planning . Huizing a also not ed that th e 
church/school wo uld be maint ained as per OPRHP and that the building may need to be mov ed for the possible future 
roundabout. Hui zinga also not ed that sinc e the last meeting an updat ed landsc aping and lighting p lan was submitted 
and that a Will Serve Letter was need ed from County Sewer and Northwood Water. 
Hull not ed that his comments were relat ed to Water and Sewer Will Serve Letters, concerns about the propos ed onsite 
stormwater management practice being undersized, and that Engineering want ed to mak e sure the Fir e Egress “geogrid 
system” would be satisfactory per tow n code.  
BOARD DISCUSSION 
Smit h ask ed Lansing to exp lain the purpose of the access easement for the property to the East of the project site. 
Lansing stat ed that this access easement was to reduce the number of curb cuts on Route 67 if the neighboring property 
were develop ed in the future. 
Smit h also ask ed Lansing t o expla in how a full access wo uld be possible on Route 67 wit h the construction of a 
roundabout. 
Alana Mor an answer ed for Lansing and stat ed that there wo uld be a shar ed left turnin g lane for people to tur n left into 
and out of the development. 
Smit h ask ed for the distance betwee n the roundabout and the access to the site on Route 67. 
Lansing stat ed that the distance from the center of t he roundabout to the access was 650 feet. 
Grandeau ask ed Moran to detail how muc h traffic wo uld be add ed to Rout e 67 if the project were approved. 
Mora n stat ed that according to the traffic study the peak AM traffic number wo uld increase by 82 vehicles and t he peak 
PM traffic number wo uld increase by 99 vehicles. 
Grandeau ask ed Lansing if there w ould be sidewalks around the entirety of the building. 
Lansing confirm ed that the building wo uld have sidewalks completely surrounding it wit h a connection to Route 67 and 
East Line Road. 
Grandeau ask ed Lansing if there were any limits on what kind of retail c ould be onsite. 
Lansing not ed that he was unsure but felt that whatever tenants that utilized the space wo uld fit the surrounding area. 
Grandeau also ask ed if the building wo uld be sprinkled. 
Lansing stat ed that the building wo uld be sprinkled. 
Havens ask ed Lansing who would be providing water to the site. 
Lansing stat ed that Northwood Water wo uld provide service. 
Havens ask ed for Lansing to identify the location of the closest main. 
Lansing stat ed that the closest m ain was at the corner of Raymond Road and Route 67. 
Havens ask ed Lansing to define how muc h water was available. 
Lansing stat ed that Northwood wo uld provide water in conjunction wit h additional flow from Sarat oga County. 
Havens also ask ed if the fire hydrants at the Southeast and Northeast corner of the property wo uld be relocated. 
Lansing stat ed that the hydrants wo uld be relocated. 
Havens want ed Lansing to make sure the geogrid access was installed properly and also want ed an additional egress at 
the Northeast corner of building. 
Taylor made a comm ent about the Montessor i project and want ed to know if a traffic light was proposed for the Cramer 
Road Route 9 intersection. 
Lansing stat ed that no traffic modifications wer e proposed for the intersection. 
23-08, Stein , Special Use Permit  Public Hearing  
Scott Lansing of Lansing Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant. 
Lansing noted that the Special Use Permit application was code compliant and echoed his applicable comments from the 
Site Plan presentation. 
Huizinga noted that she had no additional information to add other than to inform the Board that they should refer to her 
staff review for the Special Use Permit consideration criteria and that a Public Hearing was associated with the Special 
Use Permit process. 
No comments were received from Engineering. 
PUBLIC HEARING  
Chairperson Smith reconvened the Public Hearing at 7:37 PM. The Public Hearing was originally opened at the March 28, 
2023 Planning Board Meeting and left open. 
Joseph Duffy of 733 Route 67 was concerned about stormwater flows flooding his and his neighbor’s properties across 
the street and downgrade from the project site. Duffy was also concerned that there was no way to make the project fit 
the neighborhood given the increased traffic and additional light and noise pollution that would be created by it. 
John Bard of 2 Timber Trac e was concer ned that the traffic study was not completely accurate since it was still unknown 
what typ es of retail locations wo uld be going in onsite. 
Dan Ren zi of 36 Timber Trac e was concern ed about the preservation of the historic al structure. Renzi was also 
concern ed about where the water for the site wo uld be coming from and about onsite hydrants. Renzi did not fee l that 
the propos ed connect ion location would not work for t he site.  
Erica Pietrafesa of 6 Timber Trac e want ed clarification on the access t o the site on Route 67 prior to the construction of 
the roundabout. 
Lynn Davis of 38 Timber Trace didn’t feel that the project applicatio n was ready to be submitt ed to the Board in its 
current form without all of the requir ed agency permits being secured. Davis also felt that the project did not meet the 
zoning requirements for the C-2 Route 67 West Overlay Zone and want ed an addition al traffic study complet ed for the 
propos al because she felt the current one was inaccurate. Davis add ed that she also felt a traffic hazard wo uld be 
creat ed by people trying to avoid the intersection by cutting throug h the parking lot of the propos ed development. 
Angelo Patalino of 34 Timber Trace was concer ned that the project wo uld create too muc h additional traffic for the area 
and felt that the project would adversely affect the quality of life in Malta. 
Richard All en of 32 Timber Trace felt that the propos ed use didn’t fit the image that Malta s hould convey . Alle n was also 
concern ed about that the project wo uld adversely affect neighbors in Timber Trac e, Allen felt the applicant hadn’t 
consider ed neighbors fairly. Allen’s last comm ent was about his concer n for how the project c ould be approv ed prior to 
the roundabout being construct ed and water being provid ed to the site. 
Everhart ask ed if the applicant had plans to modify the project plans. 
Lansing stat ed that it was not anticipat ed unless they were directed to by the Board. 
Everhart ask ed Lansing if there were additional items that still need ed to be submitt ed for the traffic study. 
Lansing stat ed that all traffic materials had bee n submitt ed and all comments had bee n satisfied. 
Everhart not ed for the Board that she felt the Public Hearing c ould be clos ed at that point in the project process since no 
other project materials or concerns need ed to be addressed. 
Smit h ask ed Moran if she had any other comments. 
Mora n stat ed that the traffic evaluatio n was complet ed using industry standards and guidelines. 
Smit h ask ed Lansing if he was willing to table the project application unt il water service had bee n secur ed for the site. 
Lansing not ed that the applicant was currently working wit h Northwood Water for a contract agreem ent and requested 
that the securing of a water servic e provider be a condition of approv al for the project. 
Smit h ask ed the Board if they want ed to move forward. 
Grand eau felt it was appropriate to table the project approv al process until water service was secur ed and an additional 
traffic study was complet ed for the site. 
Mazz a felt it was appropriate to move forward wit h the approv al process in its curr ent form. 
Havens want ed to wait until water service was secur ed because of his concern over how muc h water wo uld be available 
for the site. 
Taylor felt the concerns brought to the Board were valid and that it was appropriate to wait until the next meeting to move 
forward. 
Everhart noted for the Board that regardless of the Board’s decisio n to approve t he project or not, there wo uld need to be 
sufficient water provid ed to the site before any building permits c ould be issued. Everhart also not ed that even if the 
project was approv ed by the Planning Board, its complex nature requir ed it to be further approv ed by the Building 
Departm ent for multiple detailed and extensive permits prior to any kind of construction.  
Everhart ask ed Lansing if he had any comments that he want ed to make to reply to the concerns present ed to be Board 
prior t o the considerat ion of the Sp ecial Us e Permit Criteria. 
Lansing stat ed that he would reply if the Board had questions. 
Chairpers on Smit h ask ed Lansing to stay at the podium during the criter ia review process and clos ed the Public Hearing 
at 8:07 PM. 
SPECIAL USE PER MIT CRITERIA 
1.Is the use listed as a permitted special use in the appropriate zoning district;
C-2 Route 67 Overlay zoning identifies Mixed Use as specially permitted use.
2.Conforms to the standards and design requirements specified in the Code and the Master Plan for that
particular zone;
The proposed use will be compliant with the Comprehensive Master Plan, Neighborhood 7 2016 update, C- 2
Route 67 West Overlay Zone, and Commercial Corridor Design Standards & Guidelines.
Everhart noted that the Board could disagree.
No comments were received from the Board.
3.Will not have an undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of the neighborhood and
surrounding areas, traffic conditions, parking, utility facilities, or other matters affecting the public health, safety,
welfare or convenience of the public;
The use is consistent with the Master Plan Neighborhood 7, Route 67 West 2016 update.  The proposed use
provides sufficient parking, public water and sewer will be extended to service the project. The town designated
engineer concurs with the applicant traffic assessment.
Grandeau felt the project did not meet water requirements prior to service being secured.
4.Will not create operations or uses that will be considered objectionable to nearby properties by reason of noise,
fumes, vibrations, illumination or other outward effects on others in the zone.
The proposed use should not create any objectionable operations. The applicant is proposing a 6’ privacy fence
and vegetated buffer along the eastern and a portion of the northern property lines.
Havens felt the Public was not happy with how the project would adversely affect the surrounding areas and that
those concerns were not yet considered.
Lansing noted that stormwater would be controlled onsite with an underground chamber system with filtration
and a flow regulation system that would connect to the natural drainage course at the Southeast corner of
property. Lansing added that the proposed management practice would recreate or exceed the pre-development
permeability of the project site. Lansing also added that the current proposal met all zoning requirements,
satisfied all Engineering comments for the site and met or exceeded all Lighting and Buffer requirements.
Havens asked if the culvert that crossed under Route 67 was part of the natural drainage course and if it hadbeen evaluated by Lansing. 
Lansing noted that the culvert was part of the natural drainage course and that it had been evaluated as 
sufficient for the project. 
5.Complies with any other requirements within the zone;
Yes
6.Will be in harmony and promote the general purpose and intent of the Master Plan;
Yes
7.Will not adversely affect the short-term and long-term cumulative impacts on the environment;
The proposed use/project impacts 0.56 acre of wetlands.  A wetlands disturbance permit is required.
Havens wanted to know if the finding was only concerned with wetlands.
Everhart confirmed that the criteria considered all possible environmental impacts.
8.Will be able to mitigate to the satisfaction of the Board any adverse or irreversible impacts on the environment,
including any growth-inducing aspects of the proposed use;
Yes. The project is subject Town Mitigation fees such as traffic, open space and GEIS. The applicant has
reserved a significant area along Route 67 and East Line Road for future traffic improvements.
Everhart noted that this criteria was based on generic growth calculations determined by the Town-wide GEIS
and Statement of Findings and added that the Board had the discretion to determine if they felt a specific
project met this criteria or not given that every project had the potential to be unique beyond the generic growth
calculations considered in the GEIS.
9.Will not adversely affect unique and irreplaceable assets or resources of the area;
The existing c-1780 church/school may be relocated on site at a later date, most likely, in conjunction with the
Route 67/East Line Road traffic improvements.  A location has been reserved on the site plan for the future
relocation of the building.
10.Will be serviced adequately (as determined by the Board) by essential public facilities and services, including,
but not limited to, highways, streets, parking spaces, public transportation, police, ambulance and fire
protection, drainage structures, solid waste management and refuse disposal, water and sewers, groundwater
protection, schools, energy conservation, as well as any other additional services as the Board deems
appropriate.
Yes.
Everhart noted for the Board that they had the opportunity to comment on these criteria and also had the
opportunity to disagree with or modify the suggested answers made by Planning Staff to the 10 criteria.
Smith asked Grandeau to comment further about his concerns with water service.
Grandeau felt uncomfortable agreeing with the final criteria before an agreement was secured that stated there
would be enough water for the site by the selected service provider.
Havens agreed with Grandeau.
Lansing noted that there were two potential options to provide water to the site, the Town of Ballston and
Northwood Water Services, and that the applicant was working out the details with both potential serviceproviders to determine which would provide water to the site through the easiest means possible. Lansing also 
noted that there would be water provided to the site regardless of the provider chosen since there would need to 
be a reliable water source for the site in order for the project to move forward. 
Everhart noted for the Board that if there were any of the 10 criteria that the Board did not agree with or had 
concerns about, they should bring that up during the review process. 
Richard Allen asked if further comments could be submitted by the public in writing. 
Everhart stated that the public could not make further comments because the Public Hearing had been closed. 
Smith asked Lansing if he was willing to table the approval until a later date. 
Lansing agreed to this. 
Smith noted that the applicant, Ron Stein had made many efforts to work with the public and their concerns. 
Stein confirmed this noted that he provided his information to the public at a previous meeting and stated that 
no one had reached out to him. 
Meeting Adjournment  
Stephen Grandeau MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Frank Mazza, motion carried unanimously at 8:35 PM. 
Respectfully submitted by, 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary 
Planning Technician  