
with Co -Chairperson, John Viola  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 Stephen Grandeau   
 Dwight Havens   
 William Smith   
 Jean Loewenstein   
 Ronald Bormann   
 John Viola   
 Kyle Kordich   
  
Absent:     
 
Leejun Taylor   
Frank Mazza   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Chairperson Viola  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
 
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
24-01 Quick -Serve Restaurant  FBC Project Plan  
24-02 Quick -Serve Restaurant  Special Use Permit  
24-03 Quick -Serve Restaurant  Minor Subdivision  
24-06 Chipotle  FBC Project Plan  
24-06A Chipotle  Special Use Permit  
24-07 Fairfield Inn and Suites  FBC Project Plan Amendment  
24-08 Philly Subdivision (Stewart’s Road)  Site Plan (Concept)  
 
 
 
Chairperson Viola  elevated William Smith  to a full voting member.  
 
 24-01, Quick -Serve Restaurant , Form Based Code Project Plan             Public Hearing  
24-02, Quick -Serve Restaurant, Special Use Permit               Public Hearing  
24-03, Quick Serve Restaurant, Minor Subdivision               Public Hearing  
 
Sam Burden of Bohler Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant.  
 
Burden outlined the site for the Board . Burden noted that the site is located at 2530 US Route 9, that it is zoned FBC DX -
3, and that it is currently vacant, wooded, and ha s a 30 -inch waterline easement on site constraining the property . Burden 
noted that the layout of the proposed site ha s changed significantly since the fir st rendition of the  presentation of the  
project to the Planning Board and stated that the site would feature 20 parking spaces, and 2 site accesses on Kendall 
Way. Burden stated that with the modifications to the project plan, the applicant was able to eli minate 3 of the originally 
4 requested variances needed for the restaurant to be functional on the site. Burden noted that he was before the Board 
to answer any questions they may have and to move forward to project approval if possible.  
 
Huizinga noted for the Board that the project was last before the Planning Board in February . Huizinga also noted  that 
since February the applicant had received the necessary variance for the project  and made multiple changes to the  initial 
project plan design to make it more consistent with the Form -Based Code requirements.  Huizinga noted that she had 
minor comments related to  landscaping,  street trees , street lights , sidewalk, and on street  parking  and stated that she 
felt the applicant made strides to me et FBC requirements.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Everhart asked Huizinga if an  access  easement would be required for the  Southern  driveway that would be shared 
between the two lots as per the current site layout.  
 
Huizinga asked if Everhart would want the easement to be part of the Subdivision.  
 
Everhart stated that she agreed with making the easement part of the Subdivision approval . 
 
Viola asked if the site would be serviced by public water.  
 
Huizinga stated that the site would be serviced by Saratoga Wat er Services.  
 
Reuben Hull spoke for Engineering and asked Burden if the height of the building would be under 30’ due to concerns 
with Fire Apparatus  access.  
 
Burden confirmed that the building would be under 30’ in height and that the site would be access ible by Malta Fire 
Apparatus  based on the provided specifications from the Fire Department . 
 
Hull noted that he was interested in minimizing parking onsite f rom 20 spots to the required 14  to lessen the amount of  
impervious  pavement onsite . Hull also noted that  he agreed with Huizinga stating that he wanted to see a more robust 
landscaping plan  for the site . 
 
Loewenstein noted that she was happy that the applicant was able to make the requested initial changes to the project 
plan. Loewenstein also note d that she would like to decrease parking further if possible.  
 
Burden stated that he did not feel parking could be decreased based on the fact that 2 spots were designated for ADA 
accessibility and  2 were for  Mobile Order Pickup only but stated that he wo uld work with planning and e ngineering to find 
a compromise if possible.  
 
Kordich also wanted less parking and stated that he understood the necessity for the ADA spots but felt that the mobile 
order spots could be eliminated and wanted the applicant to wo rk with  engineering further.  
 
Bormann asked  if a fire hydrant would be on Kendall Way as requested by the Fire Department.  
 
Burden stated that an existing hydrant was  offsite  250’ away across Route 9.  
 Bormann noted that the Fire Department  would not want  to close Route 9 in response to a fire.  
 
Burden stated that he would work with Engineering further in order to fin d a compromise.  
 
Hull noted that the project would need to be approved by the Fire Department as well as Planning.  
 
Havens added that a fire hydrant would need to be accessible in a manner that was appropriate to the Fire Department 
and not simply at a nearby location within what was minimally required by fire code.  
 
Burden and the applicant stated that they would insta ll a fire hydrant onsite or along  Kendall Way . 
 
Smith asked Burden to review the sidewalk that went across the drive -thru lane.  
 
Burden noted that the crosswalk would have signage to warn drive -thru patrons  of pedestrians  and tactile warning strips.  
Burden  added that the crosswalk  would be the main access to the restaurant for dine -in patrons arriving via car.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Viola opened the Public Hearing  for Project Plan, Special Use Permit, and Minor Subdivision  at 6:57  PM. 
 
No comments were received from the public.  
 
Viola closed the Public Hearing at 6:58  PM. 
 
Resolution #202 4 – 06 
SEQRA  
 
MOTION  by Jean Loewenstein  SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 23rd  
day of April, 202 4 determines that Project s #24-02 and #24 -03, Quick -Serve Restaurant, Special Use Permit  and Minor 
Subdivision , is consistent with the Supplemental Town Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further 
SEQRA review is required.    
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  – YES; Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES; 
Dwight Havens – YES; William Smith – YES; Jean Loewenstein – YES; John Viola - YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
 
SPECIAL USE PERMIT CRITERIA  
 
(1) Explain  how the proposed use is a permitted special use in the appropriate district. 
The FBC identifies drive-through service establishment as a specially permitted use in the DX-3 zone. 
 
(2) Explain  how the proposed use will conform to the standards and design requirements  specified in the Code and the 
Master Plan for the particular zone. 
The restaurant use is permitted within the FBC DX-3 zone. The proposed drive-through service establishment use is 
compatible with the permitted  uses within the DX-3 zone. 
 
(3) Does the proposed use have an undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of the nei ghborhood and 
surrounding area, traffic condition, parking, utility facilities,  or other matters affecting the public health, safety, welfare or 
convenience  of the public? 
The proposed drive-through establishment will likely not have an undue adverse impact on the neighborhood and 
adjacent property. Traffic circulation will be evaluated  with final project plan review. The town designated engineer has 
reviewed the traffic impact assessment report and agrees with its findings that no traffic mitigation is required.  
Viola felt that the hydrant issue direc tly affected  traffic and wanted to discuss it.  
 Everhart asked if the Board wanted a fire hydrant onsite instead of closing Route 9 in the event of a fire.  
 
The Board unanimously agreed that a  fire hydrant on site or on Kendall Way was necessary.  
 
(4) Does the proposed use create operations or uses that will be considered  objectionable to nearby pr operties by reason 
of noise, fumes, vibrations, illumination or other outward effects on others in the zone? 
The proposed special use should not generate objectionable levels of noise, fumes, vibrations, illumination or other 
outward environmental effects to others in the DX-3 zone. 
 
(5) Does the proposed use comply with all other municipal requir ements within the zone? 
The Planning Board should consider the following criteria identified in FBC Section 4.3(B), Drive-Through Se rvice 
Establishment. 
 
1. Adequate space must be made available on-site for the stacking, storage and queuing of all vehicles.  
Final Project Plan submission will include a more comprehensive review of vehicle stacking and site circulation 
relative to the placement of the propo sed drive-throug h. The plan appears to provide adequate space for stacking, 
storage, and queuing.  
 
2. Vehicles  using drive-throug h facilities may not encroach on or interfere with the public use of streets and sidewalks 
by vehicles or pedestria ns.   
 The propo sed drive-throug h does not appear to encroach on public use of streets and sidewalks. 
 
3. All drive-through areas, including but not limited to menu boards, stacking lanes, trash receptacles, ordering box, 
drive up windows, and other objects associated with the drive-through, must be located to  the side or rear of the 
building.  
The drive-through window  and associated structures are propo sed to be located at the rear and side  of the 
building, which complies with FBC requirements.   
 
4. No drive-through window or lane is permitted  on the side or rear of a building facing a protected district.  
 This project plan is not located adjacent to a protected district. 
 
(6) Is the proposed use in harmony with, and promote the general purp ose and intent  of the Master 
Plan? 
Restaurant use is permitted within the FBC DX-3 zone. The proposed drive-through service esta blishment use is 
compatible with the permitted use in the DX -3 zone.  
 
(7) Does the proposed use adversely affect the short-term and long-term cumulative impacts on the en vironment? 
There are no anticipated  adverse short-term or long-term cumulative impacts to the environment. Stormwater will be 
managed on site.  
 
(8) Does the proposed use mitigate to the satisfaction of the Board any adverse or irreversible impacts on the 
environment, including any growth-inducing  aspects of the proposed use? 
The addition of drive-through service establishments to the project plan area is  unlikely to generate adverse, irreversible, 
or growth-inducing impacts to the environment. The proposed quick serve restaurant aka Taco Bell intends to relocate 
from its current location at 6 Kendall Way (shared with Kentucky Fried Chicken). The project is subject Town -Wide GEIS 
mitigation fees.  
 
(9) Does the proposed use adversely affect the unique and irreplaceable assets or resources of the area? 
The proposed plan will NOT impact rare plants or endangered species or irreplaceable assets or resources of the 
area.  
 
(10) Is the proposed use serviced adequately by essential public facilities  and service, including, but not limited to: 
highways, streets, parking spaces, public transportation, police, ambulance and fire pr otection, drainage structures,  
solid waste management and refuse disposal, water and sewer, groundwater protection, schools, energy conservation, 
as well as other additional services?  
Existing public  facilities and services  should adequately service the propo sed drive-throug h service esta blishments. 
 Resolution #202 4 – 07 
 
MOTION  by Kyle Kordich  SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 23rd day of 
April, 202 4 approves Project #24 -02, Quick -Serve Restaurant, Special Use Permit , with the following conditions :  
 
1. That a fire hydrant be installed on Kendall Way with the location to be reviewed  and approved  by Planning, 
Engineering, the Fire Department, and Saratoga Water Services  in order to service the site in the event of a fire.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  – YES; Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES; 
Dwight Havens – YES; William Smith – YES; Jean Loewenstein – YES; John Viola - YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
 
Prior to making a motion regarding Minor Subdivision approval  Kordich, Huizinga , Everhart , Hull, and the applicant 
discussed  requiring  a cross access easement  for Lot one (1) and Lot two (2) , this suggestion was agreed upon 
unanimously.  
 
Resolution #202 4 – 08 
 
MOTION  by Jean Loewenstein  SECONDED  by Stephen Grandeau  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 23rd  
day of April, 2024  approves Project # 24-03, Quick -Serve Restaurant, Minor Subdivision , with the following conditions :  
 
1. That the applicant provides  a cross access easement to Planning Legal Counsel  for review and approv al prior to 
final project approval . 
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  – YES; Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES; 
Dwight Havens – YES; William Smith – YES; Jean Loewenstein – YES; John Viola - YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
 
24-06, Chipotle , Form Based Code Project Plan                      Public Hearing  
24-06A, Chipotle, Special Use Permit                              Public Hearing  
 
Troy Wojciekofsky  of Stantec presented on behalf of the applicant.  
 
Wojciekofsky  detailed the site and noted  that th e proposed restaurant would feature a drive -up, pick -up window that 
would be exclusively used for  online orders. Wojciekofsky  also noted that the project would have 9 dedicated parking 
spaces with shared spaces nearby and would also feature a monument sign at the Route 67  entrance to the plaza . 
Wojciekofsky adde d that there would  be a 300 SF patio with  outdoor seating  adjacent to the restaurant  and stated that 
the site would be serviced by existing Water, Sewer, and Stormwater Management Practices onsite.  
 
Huizinga noted that this project would be constructed on a  previously approved  pad site, and that the applicant was 
before the Board for Project Plan comments a nd SUP approval. Huizinga noted that Phase 1 of the Kelch Drive site  had 
been approved in 2017  and that the applicant wanted to construct the restaurant in one of the two remaining pad sites  
within Phase 1 . Huizinga noted that she was concerned with the existing hammerhead on Kelch  Drive  since the road had 
yet to connect ed to the Nigro Plaza. Huizinga added that Kelch Drive would connect to the Nigro Plaza once the Kelch 
Plaza was fully developed. Huizinga stated that she wanted to make sure that the drive -through lane did not interfere 
with the temporary hammerhead.  
 
Viola asked where Phase 2 would be located in relation to the proposed restaurant.  
 
Huizinga noted that Phase 2 would be to the North of the restaurant.  
Wojciekofsky  noted that the hamme rhead was temporary in the original project plan and that when Phase 2 is built , the hammerhead would be eliminated to construct the road to the  Nigro Plaza.  
 
Huizinga added that since the proposed restaurant featured a second access to Kelch , it made it challenging to have on -
street parking but that she would leave it up to the engineers  to find space  for at least 2 on -street parking spaces.  
 
Wojciekofsky  state d that he would work with Engineering for potential on -street parking.  
 
Huizinga noted that she wanted to see site-specific landscaping  and any updated lighting the applicant may be 
proposing.  
 
Wojciekofsky  agreed to provide updated landscaping and lighting plans.  
 
Huizinga added that the SUP considerations were identical to the Quick -Serve project and that she felt the project was 
consistent with  the TWGEIS  SEQRA  findings  if the Board agreed.  
 
Hull noted that he wanted the applicant to use a Malta F iretruck in their emergency access plan as opposed to a generic 
model.  
 
Wojciekofsky  agreed  to provide a plan with a Malta specific truck.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Smith asked if Fire Apparatus  would be able to efficiently access the site.  
 
Wojciekofsky  stated that it would.  
 
Smith also asked if vehicles exiting the drive -thru lane would cast their headlights into the neighboring home at 3 Kelch 
Drive.  
 
Wojciekofsky  stated that the drive -thru would be offset so as to not cause headlight spill age into the neighboring home.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Viola opened the Public Hearing  for the Project Plan and Special Use Permit  at 7:37  PM. 
 
Malta Ridge 2nd Assistant Fire C hief Wayne VanValkenburgh noted that he wanted the building to have a sprinkler system  
since it would save firemen’s  lives from  trying to access an unoccupied building if it were to catch fire.  
 
Viola commented that sprinklers were always recommended in commercial and residential buildings.  
 
Viola closed the Public Hearing at 7:39  PM. 
 
Resolution #202 4 – 09 
SEQRA  
 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Ronald Bormann  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 23rd  day 
of April, 202 4 determines that Project # 24-06A, Chipotle, Special Use Permit, is consistent with the Supplemental Town 
Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  – YES; Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES; 
Dwight Havens – YES; William Smith – YES; Jean Loewenstein – YES; John Viola - YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
 
 SPECIAL USE PERMIT CRITERIA  
 
(1) Explain how the proposed use is a permitted special use in the appropriate district.  
The FBC identifies drive -through service establishment as a specially permitted use in the DN -4 zone.  
 
(2) Explain how the proposed use will conform to the standards and design requirements specified in the Code and the 
Master Plan for the particular zone.  
The restaurant use  is permitted within the FBC DN -4 zone. The proposed drive -through service establishment use is 
compatible with the permitted uses within the DN -4 zone.  
 
(3) Does the proposed use have an undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of the ne ighborhood and 
surrounding area, traffic condition, parking, utility facilities, or other matters affecting the public health, safety, welfa re or 
convenience of the public?  
The proposed drive -through establishment will likely not have an undue adverse impa ct on the neighborhood and 
adjacent property. Traffic circulation will be evaluated with final project plan review.  The town designated engineer will 
provide a full review of the submitted traffic impact assessment report.  
 
(4) Does the proposed use creat e operations or uses that will be considered objectionable to nearby properties by reason 
of noise, fumes, vibrations, illumination or other outward effects on others in the zone?  
The proposed special use should not generate objectionable levels of noise, fumes, vibrations, illumination or other 
outward environmental effects to others in the DN -4 zone.  
 
(5) Does the proposed use comply with all other municipal requirements within the zone?  
The Planning Board should consider the following criteria identified  in FBC Section 4.3(B), Drive -Through Service 
Establishment.  
 
1. Adequate space must be made available on -site for the stacking, storage and queuing of all vehicles.  
The plan appears to provide adequate space for stacking, storage, and queuing.  
 
2. Vehicles usi ng drive -through facilities may not encroach on or interfere with the public use of streets and 
sidewalks by vehicles or pedestrians.   
The proposed drive -through does not appear to encroach on public use of streets and sidewalks.  
 
3. All drive -through areas,  including but not limited to menu boards, stacking lanes, trash receptacles, ordering box, 
drive up windows, and other objects associated with the drive -through, must be located to the side or rear of the 
building. Drive -through windows and lanes may not be placed between the street and the associated building.  
The drive -through window and associated structures are proposed to be located at the sides and rear of the 
building.  
 
4. No drive -through window or lane is permitted on the side or rear of a building facing a protected district.  
This project plan is not located adjacent to a protected district.  
 
(6) Is the proposed use in harmony with, and promote the general purpose and intent of the Master  
Plan?  
Restaurant use is permitted within the FBC DN -4 zone. The proposed drive -through service establishment use is 
compatible with this permitted use in the DN -4 zone.  
 
(7) Does the proposed use adversely affect the short -term and long -term cumulative impacts on the environment?  
There are no anticipated ad verse short -term or long -term cumulative impacts to the environment.  Stormwater will be 
managed on site.  
(8) Does the proposed use mitigate to the satisfaction of the Board any adverse or irreversible impacts on the 
environment, including any growth -induc ing aspects of the proposed use?  
The addition of drive -through service establishments to the project plan area is unlikely to generate adverse, irreversible, 
or growth -inducing impacts to the environment.  The project is subject Town -Wide GEIS mitigation f ees. 
 
(9) Does the proposed use adversely affect the unique and irreplaceable assets or resources of the area?  
The proposed plan will NOT impact rare plants or endangered species or irreplaceable assets or resources of the area.  (10) Is the proposed use serviced adequately by essential public facilities and service, including, but not limited to: 
highways, streets, parking spaces, public transportation, police, ambulance and fire protection, drainage structures, solid 
waste management and ref use disposal, water and sewer, groundwater protection, schools, energy conservation, as well 
as other additional services?  
Existing public facilities and services should adequately service the proposed drive -through service establishments.  
 
Smith asked whe re the closest onsite fire hydrant was.  
 
Wojciekofsky  noted that the closest hydrant is behind Starbucks.  
 
Resolution #202 4 – 10 
 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 23rd day of 
March , 202 4 approves Project # 24-06A Chipotle, Special Use Permit , as presented :  
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  – YES; Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES; 
Dwight Havens – YES; William Smith – YES; Jean Loewenstein – YES; John Viola - YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
 
24-07, Fairfield Inn and Suites, Form Based Code Project Plan Amendment                         Public Hearing  
 
Frank Alessandrini  of FH Alexander presented on behalf of the applicant.  
 
Alessandrini  stated that the proposal is for a 390 SF addition to be constructed at the Fairfield Inn and Suites for a larger 
exercise space. Alessandrini  noted that an interior expansion was impossib le due to the hotel’s interior layout. 
Alessandrini  noted that 2 parking spaces would be lost with the construction of the addition . Alessandrini noted  that the 
loss would not adversely affect  onsite parking given that there is more than enough onsite. Alessandrini  also noted that 
with the expansion, the existing window would become a doorway and that the addition would have matching siding.  
 
Viola asked what was behind the existing window that would be covered up.  
 
Alessandrini  noted that behind the window in question was the existing fitness center that would be expanded.  
 
Huizinga noted for the Board that the proposed addition needed Project Plan approval because it would change the 
square footage of the existing hotel and that the project required a Public Hearing.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
No comments were made by the Board  
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Viola opened the Public Hearing at 7:54  PM. 
 
No comments were made by the public  
 
Viola closed the Public Hearing at 7:55  PM. 
 
24-08, Philly Subdivision (Stewart’s Road), Site Plan (Concept)          
 
Chuck Marshall of Stewart’s Shops Corp. presented.  
 
Marshall stated that he was before the Board in order to receive comments and return at a later date  with a more 
developed plan . Marshall stated that the roa d that he was proposing would be in response to contractual obligations between Stewart’s Shops Corp. and Charlie’s Stay and Play  stating that Stewart’s would need to construct a road within 
three (3) years. Marshall noted that the road would need to be co nstructed and that he wanted to see what the Planning 
Board would like to happen to the remaining acreage onsite where the road would be constructed. Marshall noted that 
Lot Line Adjustments (LLAs) would need to happen in order to construct the road since it would be built over multiple tax 
parcels. Marshall added that the existing roadway was only for the construction of Charlie’s Stay and Play (Charlie’s) and 
that the LLA between Stewart’s and Charlie’s would bring Charlie’s frontage out to Route 9 and co nvey the remaining 
lands to Stewart’s to the North.  
 
Huizinga noted that the applicant was before the Board in order to receive initial comments related to the concept 
submission and that she did not currently have many comments because the specific detail s of the project would need to 
be worked out prior to moving forward. Huizinga added that the PDD Language for the Stewart’s HQ required them to 
eventually build a Town Road on their site in order to service the remaining lands within the Stewart’s PDD.  
 
Marshall noted that Stewart’s owned most of the land that is to the West and North of Charlie’s and the land that butted 
up to Pretty Sky Ranch and the Northway Exit 13 Cloverleaf.  
 
Everhart asked if the LLA that was being described is to create a lot for the proposed road.  
 
Huizinga stated that Lot Line Adjustments would be needed for the proposed road .  The proposed road as described in 
the Stewart’s PDD and Comprehensive Plan and that it would connect Route 9 to the Stewart’s properties and loop back 
around to the undeveloped parcels and the Stewart’s corporate campus. Huizinga stated that she felt the construction of 
the road would benefit Malta and that to her knowledge the Town did not fe el differently about the matter.  
 
Everhart asked if the plan was to dedicate the road to the Town.  
 
Marshall confirmed that the plan was to dedicate the road and added that the connection from the corporate campus to 
the proposed road would not occur until Stewart’s constructed an additional 40,000 SF of office space that was not 
proposed in the immediate future.  
 
Huizinga noted that the Town Highway Department had been consulted on the construction of the road.  
 
Marshall added that it was the hope of Stewart’s to make the properties that would be serviced by the road more 
attractive from a marketing perspective with the construction of the road. Marshall also stated again that he wanted to 
ultimately create a subdivision  that would lead to the construc tion of the road with onsite stormwater management, 
make a lot line adjustment that would give Charlie’s a zoning compliant lot with respect to road frontage, and dedicate 
the road to the Town and leave the remaining lands as they currently existed.  
 
Viola  asked  Marshall how long the proposed road would be.  
 
Marshall stated that the road would be 1700 feet  long.  
 
Viola asked if the land was all commercial.  
 
Huizinga  stated that the land is zoned C-8 which mean s the first 500 feet along Route 9 is for commer cial development  
only with the remaining land being commercial with the potential to be developed for residential uses  as well . 
 
Hull asked if the existing driveway would be used for the road once Charlie’s was constructed.  
 
Marshall noted that the existing driveway would be removed.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Loewenstein asked Marshall to detail the LLA.  
 
Marshall stated that it would follow the proposed road.  
 
Hull noted that the road would require multiple LLAs in order to create the parcel for the propos ed road.  Huizinga stated for Loewenstein that at the next presentation the applicant would provide details regarding the LLAs.  
 
Marshall noted that everything to the South of the proposed road would be one lot. Marshall added that the land required 
for the road itself and stormwater would be an additional parcel with the remaining lands being left as they currently 
exist.  
 
Havens asked how wide the Road Right of Way would be and how wide the road itself would be.  
 
Marshall stated that the ROW would be 80  feet wide with the paved road being 28 feet wide.  
 
Smith asked if there would be a turnaround for Fire Apparatus  
 
Marshall stated that there would be a cul -de-sac at the end of the road  to accommodate Fire Apparatus.  Marshall  also 
asked what the Board rec ommended for street light spacing.  
 
Huizinga stated that it would be discussed at a later date  and added that at  minimum one street light would be needed 
at the Route 9 intersection as per DOT  requirements.  
 
Everhart asked if the Town Board or Planning Boa rd would review lighting.  
 
Huizinga stated that the Planning Board  would  generally  review lighting during Site Plan review . 
 
Everhart asked if a Site Plan would be required.  
 
Huizinga noted that she was unsure at that point  and that it would need to be con sidered once the applicant had a more 
developed plan for the road.  
 
Hull asked if there would be sidewalks included with the road and noted that the nature of the street lighting would be 
changed if sidewalks would be constructed.  
 
Huizinga noted that a ro ad design had not been determined yet and wasn’t sure if a sidewalk would be necessary  without 
any kind of future development nearby . 
 
Viola noted that there would be more questions for Marshall  when he returned . 
 
Marshall agreed and stated  that he would have more questions for the Board at the next meeting.  
 
Planning Board Business  
 
MOTION by Jean Loewenstein  SECONDED  by William Smith  to accept the March 26, 2024  minutes.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich  – YES; Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES; 
Dwight Havens – YES; William Smith – YES; Jean Loewenstein – YES; John Viola - ABSTAIN  
 
Motion CARRIED with 6 YES and 1 ABSTENTION . 
 
Meeting Adjournment  
 
Stephen Grandeau  MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct  of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich , motion carried unanimously at 8:12  PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted by,  
 
David  E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary  
Planning Technicia n 