
The Town of Malta Planning Board held its regular meeting on Wednesday , May 24, 2023 at 6:30 p.m. at the Malta Town Hall, 
with Co-Chairperson, John Viola presiding: 
Present:  
William Smith 
Dwight Havens 
Frank Mazza 
Jean Loewenstein  
John Viola 
Ronald Bormann  
Absent:  
Leejun Taylor 
Kyle Kordich 
Stephen Grandeau 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file. 
Co-Chairperson Viola read the following agenda into the minutes: 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
23-04 Cobble Pond Farms (Concept)  Site Plan Amendment  
23-10 Keystone Novelties  Site Plan  
21-16Mountain View Meadows Estates  
(Major Subdivision)  Extension of Approval  
23-06 10 Hermes Road  Site Plan Amendment  
23-09 Charlie’s Stay and Play  Site Plan  
23-09A Charlie’s Stay and Play  Special Use Permit  
Chairperson Viola appointed William Smith as a full member. 

23-04, Cobble Pond Farms , Site Plan Amendment (Concept)
Lauren Simons, VP of GRJH, Inc. presented for Cobble Pond Farms. Simons stated that the applicant wanted to replace the 
existing 34’x100’  diesel island canopy with a smaller one of the same design that is 34’x24’  in size. 
Adrian Cattell commented for the Planning Department. Cattell noted that the proposal was a Site Plan Amendment, that the 
property was zoned C-5, and that current use was pre-existing non-conforming. Cattell also noted that Code Enforcement 
believed the use was acceptable to continue as such with the proposed renovations. Cattell noted that the site was in an 
archeologically sensitive area and that a Letter of No Impact had been received from The Office of Parks, Recreation, and 
Historic Preservation. 
Cattell informed the Board that truck access to the site was via an easement over the neighboring property to the West. Catte ll 
also noted that the Fire Apparatus Turning Radii information and the Erosion and Sediment Control Plan (E&SC) were yet to be 
reviewed by Engineering and that an owner authorization form was still needed regarding the neighboring property and 
continued use of the easement area. 
Cattell asked Simons if the fire lane would be painted as shown on the plans. 
Simons said yes. 
Reuben Hull of LaBella Engineering commented, he confirmed Cattell’s comments about needing to review the Fire Access and 
E&SC Plan as well as noting that he wanted Code Enforcement to confirm that the proximity of buildings to fuel storage would 
meet building and fire code. 
Hull also asked Simons if there would be any changes to the current fuel storage for the site and wanted Simons to make sure 
that the applicant look into any possible NYS requirements that may need to be adhered to for building permits with regards to 
fuel storage. 
Simons stated that there would be no changes to the current fuel storage and that the applicant would make sure they followed 
all requirements that needed to be met. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
Loewenstein asked Cattell if correspondence from OPRHP had been received. 
Cattell said yes. 
Loewenstein also asked if the fire lane would be painted on the site. 
Simons said yes. 
Mazza asked the applicant if the new fuel canopy would be smaller than the current one. 
Simons said yes, and that there would be two pumps with two fueling points for a total of 4 (four) fueling points. 
Viola asked Cattell if the easement documentation had been received by Planning. 
Cattell said that they were on file and appeared to be accurate according to their description. 
Simons asked the Board if they could waive the owner authorization requirement for the continued use of the access 
easement. 
Everhart asked if the applicant would be willing to inform the neighboring owner in writing about the onsite change. 
Simons said yes. 
Everhart asked Cattell about the OPRHP letter and what effect it would have on a SEQRA determination. 
Cattell stated that Planning felt the project would be consistent with the Supplemental Town-Wide GEIS and Statement of 
Findings since OPRHP stated there was no impact onsite and that disturbance to the site had already occurred for the initial 
fuel canopy. 
Loewenstei n asked Cattell if SEQRA could be acted upon with the OPR HP letter. 
Cattell said yes. 
Resoluti on #2023 – 12 
SEQRA 
MOTION by Jean Loewenstein SECONDED b y Ronald Bormann to resolve that the Malt a Planning Board on the 24th day of May, 
2023 determines that Project #23- 04, Cobble Pond Farms, Site Plan Amendment is consistent with the Supplement al Town 
Wide GEI S and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
VOTE: 
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
Loewenstein asked Cattell to clarify the outstanding Engineering comments. 
Cattell stated that Planning wanted the Fire Apparatus Turning Radii comment to be addressed and for the E&SC Plan to be 
reviewed. 
Hull added that he wanted Code Enforcement to ensure that all fire codes were adhered to in the construction of the new 
fueling canopy. 
Resolution #2023 – 13 
MOTION  by Jean Loewenstein SECONDED  by Frank Mazza to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 24th day of May, 
approves Project #23-04, Cobble Pond Farms, Site Plan Amendment, with the following conditions:   
1. That the Erosion & Sediment Control plan be reviewed and approved by the Town Designated Engineer.
2. That the applicant provides proof of notice to the owner of neighboring property for the continued use of the easement.
3. That the Town Designated Engineer review and approve the fire truck turning plan.
4. That the applicant conform to NYS Building and Fire Code, to be verified by Code Enforcement.
VOTE: 
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
23-10, Keystone Novelties, Site Plan
Ed McMahon presented for Keystone. McMahon stated for the Board that all materials for the proposed use had been received 
by the Planning Department and that he was before the Board to answer any questions or concerns. 
Huizinga presented for the Planning Department. Huizinga noted that other Firework Tent Site Plans had been received by 
Planning in the past and that the Keystone submission was similar to those. Huizinga noted that the proposed site is located at 
2370 US Route 9, adjacent Taddeo Drive, and that the site would be active for 10 days, June 22 to July 5. The site will operate 
in accordance to NYS Law, town code and NYS fire code. Huizinga also noted that fireworks sales were not a listed use in the 
Town Code ; however were allowed in 2014 b y NYS, and that Malt a had opted in to allowing fireworks s ales in town with all sites 
requiring Site P lan approv al by the Plannin g Board. 
Huizing a asked the applicant to consult with Code Enforcement regarding required permits for the te nt, storage container and 
signage. 
McMah on stated th at he would check with Code Enforcement and that there would be significant signage for parking t o ensure 
safety. 
Engineering had no comments. 
BOARD DISCUSSION 
Loewenstei n asked McMah on to detail the parking for the site. 
McMah on stated that as custom ers entered the sit e, there would be parking to the left, next to the tent and adjacent to the 
existing building, with a tot al of 10 parking spaces. 
Borman n asked McMah on what kind of lighting would be used onsite. 
McMah on stated there would lighting onsite powe red by a generator. 
Mazz a asked if there would be NO PARKING signs on Route 9. 
McMah on said yes. 
Resoluti on #2023 – 14 
SEQRA 
MOTION b y Jean Loewenstein SECONDED b y Frank Mazza to resolve that the Malt a Plannin g Board on the 24th day of May, 
2023 determines that Project #23-10, Keystone Novelties, Site Plan is consistent with the Supplement al Tow n Wide GEI S and 
Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
VOTE: 
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
Resolution #2023 – 15 
MOTION  by Frank Mazza SECONDED  by Ronald Bormann to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 24th day of May 2023 
approves Project # 23-10, Keystone Novelties, Site Plan, as presented: 
VOTE:    
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – NO  
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 5-1 
21-16, Mountain View Estates, Major Subdivis ion (Extens ion of Approval)
Scott Lansing presented on behalf of the applicant. 
Lansing noted that the project was originally approved on January 24, 2023. Since that time, Lansing noted that the 
Conservation Easement was approved by the Town Board, and water and sewer had been approved by the Clifton Park Water 
Authority and the Saratoga County Sewer District.  Lansing also noted that approval from the NYSDOH needed to be obtained 
and that he was waiting on NYSDEC approval for water and sewer. 
Lansing stated that he felt the final approvals required for the project would arrive soon and asked for a 90 day extension of 
approval for the project. 
Huizinga presented for the Planning Department . Huizinga noted that if a 90 day extension of approval were granted, it would 
extend the current approval expiration date until September 22, 2023. Huizinga also noted for the Board that the Conservation 
Easement for the project was approved by the Town Board on May 1, 2023 and that Planning staff was working on completing 
the required Baseline Documentation Report for the Conservation Easement.  
Loewenstein asked Huizinga if the applicant would need to return to the Board if they need ed an additional extension. 
Huizinga said they would need to be on the August 25, 2023 agenda if an additional extension of approval was needed. 
Hull asked Lansing when onsite earthwork would begin. 
Lansing stated that he wasn’t sure but felt that work would begin in 2024. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
No comments from the Board 
Resolution #2023 – 16 
MOTION  by Ronald Bormann SECONDED  by William Smith to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 24th day of May , 
2023 approves Project #21- 16, Mountain View Meadows Estates, Major Subdivision (Extension of Approval), for 90 days 
beyond the present deadline of June 24, 2023 to September 22, 2023. 
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
23-06, 10 Hermes Road,  Site Plan  Amendment
Lansing presented for G&G Industrial Lighting (Hermes Development LLC). 
Lansing noted that the site is 5.59 acr es, and that the existing onsite facility would be utilized with a proposed 12,000 SF 
addition. Lansing also noted that the onsite tower that is attached to the existing structure would be demolished and the 
addition would be constructed in its place. 
Lansing stated that there would be additional paving completed onsite for better truck access and that parking would be used 
with no change . Lansing noted that there were currently 103 parking spaces onsite with 22 banked. Lansing felt that no new 
parking would be needed for the site.  
Lansing noted that an Erosion and Sediment Control plan had been created with onsite underground stormwater management 
and that the facility would be serviced by public utilities. Lansing stated that the existing facility was sprinkled and that the 
addition would be as well. Lansing also noted that preliminary final engineering had been prepared for the project by his firm 
and asked the Board for an exception on the Town’s  lighting requirements of 0.0 foot-candles ( fc) at property line since the 
existing outdoor lighting created 0.4 fc at property line, and since the applicant would like to utilize the existing lighting. 
Viola asked Lansing how f ar the existing lighting was from the road. 
Lansing stated that it was approximatel y 160 feet from the road. 
Viola also asked what the tower was used for. 
The applicant stated that it was a light duty warehouse struct ure that was unused since the 1970s. 
Huizing a stated for the Board that the existing lighting was acceptabl e. Huizinga noted th at new lighting must meet the current 
Town code lighting standards.  If the applicant were to mak e repairs or upgrad e the old lighting , replacements should be LED 
lighting with a maximum of 3000K in temperature to allow for softer lighting and that lighting most likel y would not extend past 
the propert y line. 
Huizing a als o asked the applicant to include, on the fina l site plan, a note indicating which 22 parking spots will be banked. 
Huizing a also noted th at a Lot Line Adjustment applicat ion was submitted and administrativel y approved on 5/16/2023 by 
Planning. Huizing a stated that she wanted the Board to mak e a condit ion of approv al that the lot li ne adjustment map b e filed 
and filing receipt b e provided prior to the final site plans being signed. Huizing a noted that the applicant would ow n the 
neighboring property (30 Herm es Rd) and th at they would need to provid e correspond ence to her that grading/soil disturbance 
would spill over onto the adjacent property. 
Reub en Hull of LaBel la Associates recommended that the waiv er regarding site lighting was unnecessary in his op inion but 
would support it if the Board felt it was necessary. 
Huizing a noted that Malt a Rid ge Fire Department has no concerns about the project. 
BOARD DISCUSSION 
Everhart asked Huizing a to det ail her SEQRA recommendations. 
Huizing a recommended that since SEQRA had previous ly bee n completed for the NYSERDA project and that, th e proposed site 
plan amendment would be consistent with prior SEQRA determinat ion and th e Town-Wid e GEI S and Statement of Findings. 
Everhart recommended that the SEQRA Resoluti on not note the prior SEQRA determination and to focus on the GEI S and 
Statement of Findings. 
Resoluti on #2023 – 17 
SEQRA 
MOTION by Jean Loewenstein SECONDED b y Ronald Bormann to resolve that the Malt a Planning Board on the 24th day of May, 
2023 determines that Project #23-06, 10 Herm es Road, Site Plan Amendment is consistent with the Supplement al Tow n Wide 
GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
VOTE: 
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
Resolution #2023 – 18 
MOTION  by Dwight Havens SECONDED  by Ronald Bormann to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 24th day of May , 
2023 approves Project #23-06, 10 Hermes Road, Site Plan Amendment, with the following conditions: 
1. That the approved Lot Line Adjustment be filed with the County Clerk.2. That the extra 22 parking spaces be shown as banked on the final Site Plan.
3. That the applicant show proof that they have landowner permission to create soil spillage onto the neighboring
property created by temporary grading.
4. That the applicant address the 5.17.23 LaBella Associates comment letter.
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
23-09, Charlie’s Stay and Play, Site Plan
Matt Brobston of The LA Group presented on behalf of the applicant. Brobston noted that the project was a second draft of an 
initial design in a different location. Brobston also noted that the proposed location included an existing dog daycare facility.  
Brobston stated that the new facility would require a Lot Line Adjustment (LLA) for its proposed location at the rear of the 
property and that ultimately a road would be constructed on the property by the owner (Stewart’s) . Brobston felt the LLA would 
be the best way to construct the project and allow for the future road. Brobston noted that he was presenting to request a 
Special Use Permit ( SUP) since the proposed facility would be mixed use with an accessory dwelling unit (ADU) for an employee 
for the overnight care of dogs. 
Brobston noted that a DOT highway work permit would be needed because the applicant plans to remove one of the two onsite 
curb cuts and use the remaining Northern entrance to the property. 
Brobston noted that the new construction would be at the very back of the property. It would feature a 12,000 SF building, 31 
parking spots, a grooming and vet facility onsite as well as an accessory dwelling unit. Brobston also noted that the Northern 
entrance to the building would be for daycar e, with the grooming and vet facility serviced by the central entrance. Brobston also 
stated that a separate Southern entrance would be for the ADU. Brobston noted that to the rear of the facility there would be 
play yards for dogs with shaded areas and a play pool. 
Brobston noted that Fire access radii were included with the submitted plan, as well as a grading plan for construction access . 
Brobston also noted that due to the sandy soils onsite, infiltration would be used for majority of stormwater management with a 
basin for the facility on the Western side of the site . Brobston also noted that a lighting and utility plan was included, denoting 
light spillage and the large septic design for the site needed for the large number of dog kennels onsite. Water would be 
provided for the site via well, and the building would be sprinkled with water provided by onsite storage tank. 
Randy Kelley of Balzer Tuck Architecture described the interior layout of the facility. 
Viola asked where the ADU would be. 
Kelley stated it was on the Southern side of the bldg. 
Brobston noted that most Engineering comments had been addressed at that time and that any others would be answered 
going forward. 
Viola asked Brobston to clarify the fact that the status of the site property. 
Brobston detailed how the Lot Line Adjustment (LLA) would create the proposed site out of two existing sites. He also noted that 
an LLC would be created by Stewart’s and Charlie’s Stay and Play (CS&P) that  would provide specific rights to each partner. The 
created lot would be leased to CS&P with the entire property being owned by the LLC. Brobston noted that the final entrance to 
the site would be an access easement for CS&P that would be built as a Town road. This road would be on S tewart’s property in 
the interim. Once the remaining property was developed, the LLC between Stewart’s and CS&P would dissolve and the site for 
CS&P would be sold to CS&P with an entrance to their site on a Town road. 
Everhart clarified Brobston’s descrip tion for the Board. 
Huizing a stated for the Board that the Stewart’s PDD required Stewart’s to build a future Town road for further development. 
Huizing a noted that the LLA was necessary for CS&P to eventuall y have road frontag e whe n they ow n the proposed parcel. 
Everhart asked if an owner authorizatio n had bee n signed b y Stewart’s 
Huizing a said yes. 
Everhart asked if the LLC would be formed and if the conveyan ce of land would occ ur during the project review process. 
Brobst on stated that if Site Pla n and Special Use Permit approv al were obtained, the LLA could be administrativel y approved by 
Plannin g and the LLC would th en be created. 
Everhart recommended that a member of the LLC submit writt en authorizat ion of unanimous consent to the proje ct review 
process proceedin g once SP and SUP approv al were granted. 
Brobst on agreed to this. 
Hull stated for the Board that the initial access for the site would be a driveway that would exist during the lifes pan of the LLC 
betwee n Stewart’s and CS& P. The length of this driveway that would lead to the eventual CS&P parcel would be rebuilt to Town 
standards as an off icial road. CS&P would th en have a shorter driveway on their propert y that would exit onto a n off icial Town 
road. 
Huizing a stated for the Board that the project required Site Plan and Special Use Permit approval. Huizing a also noted th at a 
LLA would be needed, and that a n updated survey was needed to be submitted for the LLA to be filed. Huizing a wanted the final 
Site Plan to include the fina l lot configuration. 
Huizing a noted that the proposed building is 1200+ feet from road and wanted the driveway designed to NY S Fire Code. 
Huizing a also noted that the Malt a Rid ge Fir e Department was comfortable with building design sinc e it would be sprinkled. 
Huizing a also stated that traff ic assessment correspond ence had bee n submitted to LaBell a and that proposed signag e would 
need to be submitted as a building permit application.  
Huizing a stated for the Board that she made suggestions f or the Board in making their decis ion regarding Special Use Permit 
approval, and that Code enforcement and Plannin g had determined the A DU was permitted for employee use to provide 24 
hour care of the animals. 
Hull noted that his comments related to utilities. Hull wanted well flow t ests and noted his comment letter had 
recommendations on the design for the onsite septic . The sept ic system would need NYSDOH approval. Hull also noted that he 
wanted traff ic calculations based on each individual us e for the site calculated and th en totaled to provide a more accurate 
idea of what traff ic there would actuall y be onsite.  
BOARD DISCUSSION 
Loewenstei n asked if Brobst on had an y maps showing the entire site after the proposed LLA. 
Brobst on stated that he did not hav e anythin g at that time but would look for one, but noted that planning staff comments had 
an image of the entire site. 
Loewenstei n asked if the current Mahogany Rid ge facilit y was in us e, how man y dogs were in that facility, and how man y would 
be in the new facility. 
Brobst on stated that there were current ly 15 dogs in the existing facility. Brobst on also stated that wh en the new facilit y was 
completed, there would b e 30 dogs onsite. 
Loewenstei n was concerned with the number of proposed parking spaces onsit e, she asked if there would be enough giv en the 
uses of the facility. 
Brobst on stated that 31 spaces was enough since the facilit y would be geared towards “drop -offs” and “pick -ups” and sin ce the 
desig n exceeded the required 18 parking spaces for the facility. 
Loewenstei n also asked how f ar the proposed facilit y was from existing homeowners. 
Brobst on stated that the closest resid ence to the proposed facilit y was approximatel y 870 feet to the South. 
Havens asked how th e size of th e fire prevent ion system was designed. 
Brobst on stated it was designed b y Northeast Fire Prevention and that the size was calculated b y them. 
Havens asked how f ar away the nearest water suppl y was after the onsite 12,000 gall on storage tank. 
Brobst on noted that the nearest water s ource beyond the tank was the nearb y Malt a Rid ge Fire Department to the South. 
Mazz a asked if the propert y would be hooked up to publi c water on ce the remainder of the propert y was developed and water 
service was extended to the property. 
Brobst on stated that this was the intenti on of the applicant. 
Smith asked how the applicant planned to provide enough water. 
Brobst on stated th at the proposed well would be sufficient according to their calculations and th at a second well would be 
drilled if one well was not enough. Brobst on also stated that a well d ata report would be needed to determine its ability. 
Hull clarified for the Board that the sprinklers for the building would not be drawing water from the well itself wh en th ey were 
running, but from the onsite holding tank that would be supplied b y the onsite well. 
Smith asked if fire apparatus would be able to successf ully access the site and requested pull offs to be created for additional 
trucks to provide support until the full Tow n road was completed. 
Brobst on said yes and that if pull offs were required th ey would be incorporated into the design. 
Everhart asked Brobst on to ens ure that any time frame applicable to acti on related to the Site Plan (SP) be waived so that the 
Board would hold the Site Plan in abeyance with the Special Use Permit (SUP).   
Brobst on agreed to this and stated that it was the applicant’s intent ion to do so. 
Resoluti on #2023 – 19 
SEQRA 
MOTION by Jean Loewenstein SECONDED b y Ronald Bormann to resolve that the Malt a Planning Board on the 24th day of May, 
2023 determines that Project #23- 09 & Proje ct #23-09A , Charlie’s Stay and Play, Site Plan and Special Use Permit are 
consistent with the Supplemental Tow n Wide GEI S and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is 
required.    
VOTE: 
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
Loewenstein asked Hull if his request to include updated traffic numbers based on the combined number of onsite uses was 
something that would be difficult for the applicant to obtain and if it would change the layout of the design of the project. 
Hull sta ted that his request wouldn’t change the layout of the design, but would change the conclusion of the feasibility of the 
desig n itself. Hull did not feel that the request would significant ly chan ge the feasibilit y of the design. 
Resoluti on #2023 – 20 
MOTION by Jean Loewenstein SECONDED b y Ronald Bormann to resolve that the Malt a Planning Board on the 24th day of May , 
2023 approv es Project #23- 09 Charlie’s Stay and Play, Sit e Plan, with the following conditions: 
1. That the applicant address the 5.22.23 LaBella comment letter.
2. That the onsite Accessory Dwelling Unit be restricted in writing to Employee use ONLY.
3. Approval and filing of the Lot Line Adjustment documentation.
4. That the driveway incorporate bump outs for multiple emergency vehicles to access the site.
Ronald Bormann - YES
Frank Mazza – YES
Dwight Havens – YES
William Smith – YES
Jean Loewenstein - YES
John Viola – YES
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
23-09A, Charlie’s Stay and Play, Special Use Permit  Public Hearing  
Matt Brobston of The LA Group presented on behalf of the applicant. 
Public Hearing  
Viola opened the Public Hearing at 8:10. 
Everhart asked the Board if they felt they were ready to move forward with project approval in the concern that the Public 
Hearing should remain open in case the Board were not ready to move forward. 
The Board felt comfortable moving forward with SUP approval. 
There were no comments from the public. 
Viola closed the Public Hearing at 8:14. 
SPECIAL USE PERMIT CRITERIA.  The Board reviewed the criteria. 
1. Is the use listed as a permitted special use in the appropriate zoning district?
C-8 zoning identifies Mixed Use as specially permitted use. The proposed uses (pet daycare/boarding, pet grooming, animal
hospital (veterinary) are permitted uses in the C-8 Zone. The minimum lot size required in the C-8 zone is 80,000 sf with 
200 ft. of road frontage. The parcel will meet these standards upon finalization of the lot line adjustment.  
2. Conforms to the standards and design requirements specified in the Code and the Master Plan for that particular zone.
The proposed use will be compliant with the standards and design requirements of the C-8 Zone, Comprehensive Master Plan,
and Commercial Corridor Design Standards & Guidelines. 
3. Will not have an undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of the neighborhood and surroundi ng areas,
traffic conditions, parking, utility facilities, or other matters affecting the public health, safety, welfare or convenience  of
the public. 
The project will not have an undue adverse impact on the neighborhood. The site is a redevelopment of an existing pet 
daycare/boarding facility (Mahogany Ridge Dog Daycare). Mixed use is consistent with the Master Plan Neighborhood 12, 
Route 9 North update.  
5. Will not create operations or uses that will be considered objectionable to nearby properties by re ason of noise, fumes,
vibrations, illumination or other outward effects on others in the zone.
The proposed use should not creat e any objectionable operations. The proposed use/project will utilize a new 11,800 sf 
building to accommodate the dog daycare/boarding facility. The facility will be staffed 24/7. An accessory unit, located 
within the building, will be for staff use only. Staffing is required on site 24/7 for care of the animals and facility.  
5. Complies with any other requirements within the zone.
Yes. If granted the proposed special use will comply of municipal requirements within the C8 zone, including site plan 
approval and administrative lot line adjustment approval. 
6. Will be in harmony and promote the general purpose and intent of the Maste r Plan.
Yes. Neighborhood 12 vision for this Corridor is to establish or promote redevelopment of highway commercial, office and 
other uses….and which would not likely directly compete with established uses in the core Downtown area. 
7. Will not adversely affect the short -term and long -term cumulative impacts on the environment.
The proposed mixed use building will not adversely affect the environment . 
8. Will be able to mitigate to the satisfaction of the Board any adverse or irre versible impacts on the environment, including
any growth -inducing aspects of the proposed use.
The project will manage stormwater and waste water on site. The project is subject to Town mitigation fees such as traffic, 
open space and GEIS. 
9. Will not adversely affect unique and irreplaceable assets or resources of the area.
The proposed uses will not adversely affect any unique or irreplaceable assets or resources of the area. 
10. Will be serviced adequately (as determined by the Board) by essential public facilities and services, including, but not
limited to, highways, streets, parking spaces, public transportation, police, ambulance and fire protection, drainage structu res,
solid waste management and refuse disposal, water and sewers, groundwater protection, schools, energy conservation, as well
as any other additional services as the Board deems appropriate.
Yes. The proposed uses/site plan provides adequate essential facilities and services; sufficient parking, private water (well ) 
and sewer (septic) and stormwater management will service the project. 
Resolution #2023 – 21 
MOTION  by Ronald Bormann SECONDED  by Frank Mazza to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 24th day of May , 
2023 approves Project #23- 09A, Charlie’s Stay and Play, Special Use Permit, as presented: 
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola – YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
Planning Board Business  
MOTION by William Smith  SECONDED  by Dwight Havens to accept the March 28, 2023 minutes. 
VOTE: 
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES  Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola – ABSTAIN 
Motion CARRIED with 5 YES and one ABSTENSION 
Frank Mazza MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the conduct of 
the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Jean Loewenstein, motion carried unanimously at 8:30 PM. 
Respectfully submitted by, 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary 
Planning Technician  