
The Town of Malta Planning Board held its regular meeting on Tuesday August 22, 2023 at 6:30 p.m. at the Malta Town 
Hall, with Co-Chairperson, John Viola presiding: 
Present:  
John Viola 
Stephen Grandeau 
Ronald Bormann  
Frank Mazza 
Dwight Havens  
William Smith 
Kyle Kordich (LATE) 
Absent:  
Jean Loewenstein 
Leejun Taylor 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file. 
Chairperson Viola read the following agenda into the minutes: 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
21-16 Mountain View Estates  Major Subdivision  
23-08 Stein  Special Use Permit  
22-21 Stein  Site Plan  
23-15 Jersen Construction Group  Site Plan (Concept)  
23-14 ES-TD Ventures  Site Plan Amendment and 
Special Use Permit  
Chairperson Viola elevated William Smith to a full voting member 

Planning Board Business  
MOTION by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Frank Mazza to accept the July 25, 2023 minutes. 
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau - YES 
Ronald Bormann – ABSTAIN 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens - YES 
William Smith – YES 
John Viola - ABSTAIN 
Motion CARRIED, 4 Yes, and 2 Abstentions. 
21-16, Mountain View Estates, Major Subdivision (Extension of Approval)
Scott Lansing presented on behalf of the applicant. 
Lansing noted that nothing with the project had changed since the initial project approval. Lansing also noted that the 
applicant was continuing to work with affiliated state agencies to obtain all necessary approvals for the project and that 
the Clifton Park Water Authority had agreed to extend the Water District for the project. 
Huizinga noted for the Board that the applicant was only allowed a 90-day Extension of Approval. Huizinga also noted 
that if additional time was needed after the granting of an extension, the applicant would need to request an additional 
90-day Extension. Huizinga stated that the current approval was only valid until 9.22.2023 and if an Extension of
Approval was granted at the August meeting, the next expiration date would be 12.21.2023.
BOARD DISCUSSION
No Comments from the Board 
Resolution #2023 – 33 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau SECONDED  by Ronald Bormann to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 22nd day 
of August, approves a 90 day Extension of Approval for Project #21-16 Mountain View Estates, Major Subdivision 
extending the expiration date of September 22, 2023 to December 21, 2023. 
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau - YES 
Ronald Bormann – YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens - YES 
William Smith – YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
22-21, Stein, Site Plan and 23-08, Stein, Special Use Permit
Scott Lansing of Lansing Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant. 
Lansing requested project approval. Lansing provided architectural renderings and described them in detail. Lansing also 
noted that all requested information had been submitted to the Planning Board and that a contract had been signed with 
Northwood Water Company to provide water to the site. Lansing also noted that consistent with suggestions by Planning 
Staff, a flat roof design had been proposed for the building instead of the original pitched roof design reducing the overall 
height of the structure . Lansing also noted that the applicant decreased the size of the building from 139 units to 136 
units, the retail spaces for the site wo uld be limit ed to personal servic es whic h will reduce potential traffic impacts, the 
onsite dumpster was relocated away from adjac ent properties, and additional landsc aping was add ed to include 20’ 
evergree n trees. 
Viola ask ed Lansing where the East Line Road access wo uld be relocat ed to if a roundabout was built in the intersection. 
Lansing not ed that the East Line access wo uld work where it was currently propos ed even wit h a roundabout style 
intersect ion. Lansing also not ed that if the intersection became a roundabout after the East Line access improvements 
were constructed, that entryway wo uld change from the currently propos ed full access to a right in, right out access as 
per t he request of the County Planning Board. Lansing also not ed that the County request ed that the applicant relocate 
the East Line entrance further Nort h once t he roundabout were construct ed and that the applicant was willing to do this 
if necessary. 
Viola ask ed if Lansing wo uld need to come back before the Board to approve t he East L ine access relocation. 
Huizinga noted that the need to come back t o the Plannin g Board for the access relocation may be moot since the DOT 
and the DEC would dictate how the access wo uld be relocated. 
Everhart not ed that despite t he fact that other agencies may require relocat ion, movem ent of this access point wo uld be 
an amendm ent to the Site Pl an and wo uld seem to trigger further Planning Board review.  
Stein spoke and not ed that he committ ed to preserving the view to the North of the property for t he neighboring 
community by planting 20 foot tall pines, and by potentially removing parking spac es along the Norther n boundary. Stein 
also not ed that the proposed location of the onsite dumpster wo uld be relocated to limit noise, and he would install 
speed bumps in the parking lot to eliminate the possibility of t he site becoming a cut through for traffic. Stein added that 
he also spoke wit h the neighboring landowners to the Sout h to discuss the possibility of purchasing the ir property to 
alleviat e their concerns wit h his developm ent going in, and committ ed to a full restoration of the onsite church/school 
building. Stein also not ed that he was committ ed to relocating the church/school before or after restoration if 
necessitat ed by the construction of a roundabout at the Route 67 East Line Road intersection. 
Huizinga confirm ed that the contract for water service t o the site had bee n provid ed and that updat ed architectural 
renderings had bee n received by t he Planning Department. H uizinga felt that the project was ready to be vot ed on for 
SEQRA, Site Plan, and Speci al Use Permit. 
Reuben Hull of LaBella Associat es noted that a letter of No Adverse Impact had been receiv ed from NYS Office of Parks, 
Recreat ion, and Historic Preservatio n (OPRHP) and recomm ended that t he Planning Board consider incorporating into 
any approv al Resolut ion, t he two contingents not ed in the OPRHP letter.  Hull also noted that the water report s hould be 
updat ed to reflect that the source of water wo uld be Northwood Water inst ead of the Tow n of Ballston .  
Hull confirm ed that the entryways m et applicable requirements, but that if a roundabout were construct ed at this 
locat ion, he recommend ed that bot h site entrances be “Right in Right out” to prevent left tur n conflicts on Rt. 67 and on 
East Line Road. Hull als o recomm ended that, if the Planning Board approv ed this Applicat ion, it s hould consider 
condit ioning approv al on the ong oing cooperation of the Applicant wit h the To wn, County and State to help facilitate the 
propos ed roundabout. 
Everhart ask ed Hull to clarify his last recommendation. 
Hull explai ned that he wanted there to be documentation in place to ensure what the Planning Board want ed to 
accomplis h wit h their decisio n when the roundabout desig n moved forward. 
Lansing noted that he wanted to keep the full access on Route 67 because he felt that a Right in Right out would be too 
restrictive. Lansing also noted that the applicant was willing to do whatever was necessary to move the process forward 
to change the intersection to a roundabout. 
Chairperson Vio la not ed that Board Member Kordic h had joined the meeting at 7:07 P M and ask ed him to come t o the 
dais.  
BOARD DISCUSSION 
Smit h not ed that he felt t he curr ent intersection sufficiently allow ed traffic to make left turns off of East Line onto Route 
67 and off of Route 67 into the project site even if the intersection wasn’t changed.  
Kordic h echo ed Smith’s comments. 
Viola ask ed Hull to exp lain how people wou ld go Sout h or West out of the site if both entrances were made Right in Right 
out only. 
Hull not ed that t he Route 67 access wo uld need t o be used to leave the site and go throug h the roundabout to go South 
or West. 
Hull also ask ed if the East Line access wo uld be construct ed once or twice if a roundabout went in after the entrance had 
been constructed. 
Stein and Lansing confirmed that if the access on East Line need ed to be mov ed it wo uld be moved. 
Grandeau not ed that the fire apparatus access p lan need ed to be updated to show the relocat ed Route 67 access. 
Lansing not ed that an updat ed fire apparatus access p lan had bee n completed, but tha t it hadn’t bee n submitt ed to the 
Planning Board. Lansing also not ed that thoug h the updat ed plan had y et to be submitted, he thought the plan 
demonstrat ed sufficient access. 
Grandeau also ask ed about snow removal. 
Lansing not ed that he felt there w ould be enough room onsite to pus h snow past the parking spac es and onto t he grass. 
Resolution #2023 – 34 
SEQRA 
MOTION by Stephen Grandeau SECONDED by Frank Mazza to resolve that the Malt a Planning Board o n the 22nd day of 
August, 2023 determines that Project # 22-21, Stein, Site Plan, and Project #23-08 Stein, Sp ecial Us e Permit, are 
consist ent with the Supplemental Tow n Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is 
required.    
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau - YES 
Ronald Bormann – YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens - YES 
William Smith – YES 
Kyle Kordich - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
Everhart reminded the Board that Planning Staff had provided the Board with the Special Use Permit criteria to assist in 
its review effort.  She noted that Planning Staff had also provided potential responses which should be treated by the 
Board as a “jumping off point” to foster discussion .  She then read each SUP criteria along with Planning staff guidance 
for the Board. 
SPECIAL USE PERMIT CRITERIA  
1.Is the use listed as a permitted special use in the appropriate zoning district;Everhart reminded the Board that planning staff suggested that the C- 2 Route 67 Overlay zoning identified Mixed 
Use as specially permitted use.  All Board members agreed with this recommendation. 
2.Conforms to the standards and design requirements specified in the Code and the Master Plan for that
particular zone;
Everhart reminded the Board that planning staff suggested that the proposed use will be compliant with the
Comprehensive Master Plan, Neighborhood 7 2016 update, C-2 Route 67 West Overlay Zone, and Commercial
Corridor Design Standards & Guidelines. All Board members agreed with this recommendation.
3.Will not have an undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of the neighborhood and
surrounding areas, traffic conditions, parking, utility facilities, or other matters affecting the public health, safety,
welfare or convenience of the public;
Grandeau questioned the validity of the traffic assessment, and felt that despite the results of the traffic study ,
the project would create too much traffic in an area where there was already a substantial traffic problem.
Alana Moran, VHB, detailed the traffic assessment results for the Board. Moran noted that the traffic standards
are based off of many different use codes for both residential and commercial uses. Moran also repeatedly
noted that the standards used were a nationwide average that were based on peak travel times both in the AM
and PM for both high and low population density areas.
Grandeau asked Moran to confirm that the traffic count used was based on a national average, not specific to
Upstate NY.
Moran confirmed that the calculation was based on a national average and noted that in her experience it was
consistent with the traffic generated locally.
Grandeau added that he felt no matter what the study stated, adding more cars to the intersection would only
exacerbate the current gridlock that was already present at the intersection.
Everhart asked the Board if they had any other comments related to this SUP criteria.
Bormann added to Grandeau’s comments that he was concerned  with emergency services being able to use
Route 67 adjacent to the project site if more cars were added to the area with the project.
Havens noted that even though there would be more traffic on the road with the project, the only real way to
mitigate the additional impact would be through the intersection changing to a roundabout.
Mazza noted that the traffic issue was already existing and would be increasing with or without this project due
to development elsewhere including in the neighboring Town of Ballston.
Grandeau asked if Northwood Water would have enough capacity to provide water to the site.
Hull noted that a letter had been received by Engineering stating that Northwood Water Company had the
capacity to service the site.
Kordich asked what the alleged benefit would be to the community of this project.
Viola noted it would be the church/schoolhouse.
Everhart noted that there was no public benefit required for a Special Use Permit and that this was not part of
the criteria to be considered.
Lansing acknowledged Mazza’s comment that any use on the site would increase traffic in the area and  that the
traffic completed was reviewed by licensed traffic engineers who determined that the impacts of the project
would be within reason for the area.Lansing added that a potential public benefit of the project was the applicant was willing to work with the DOT 
and provide them the land necessary to construct a roundabout at the intersection to ease traffic issues. 
4.Will not create operations or uses that will be considered objectionable to nearby properties by reason of noise,
fumes, vibrations, illumination or other outward effects on others in the zone.
Everhart noted for the Board that this required them to determine whether any noise, fumes, vibrations,
illuminations or other aspects of the project would be objectionable in their opinions and should not simply
reflect whether any neighbor had raised objections.
Havens agreed that the applicant had done a lot to minimize any objectionable operations. Havens also noted
that the outward objectionable operations would be illumination and that the applicant had gone above and
beyond to minimize this impact.
5.Complies with any other requirements within the zone;
Everhart reminded the Board that planning staff suggested that the project complies with any other
requirements within the zone . All Board members agreed with this statement.
6.Will be in harmony and promote the general purpose and intent of the Master Plan;
Everhart reminded the Board that planning staff suggested that the project will be in harmony with and promote
the general purpose and intent of the Master Plan
Bormann noted that from what he understood of the intent of the Master Plan, the project site was intended for
retail uses, not homes or apartments. Bormann felt that this project would not be in harmony with the intent of
the Master Plan. Other Members did not comment.
7.Will not adversely affect the short-term and long-term cumulative impacts on the environment;
Everhar t reminded the Board that, in creating their Record, it was important to discuss these criteria aloud, and
reminded the Board that controversial applications sometimes result in litigation and that a basis for whatever
outcome the Board ultimately reaches should be reflected in its Record.
Kordich added that each Board member should provide a reason why they agree or disagree with each of the
Planning staff’s suggested responses to the 10 Criteria .
Everhart added that impacts on the environment could include discussion not only of the physical environment,
but of the historic character of the area as well.
Viola noted that he felt the church/schoolhouse building was part of this specific Criteria and felt it would be a
detriment if the structure couldn’t be persevered if the Route 67 East Line Road intersection became a
roundabout.
Lansing noted that the Applicant was not affirmatively proposing to demolish or move the schoolhouse as part of
this project and noted that if the schoolhouse were to stay in its present location and was thereafter damaged as
a result of the roundabout construction, any future impact on the structure would be due to the roundabout
project, not this one.
Kordich noted that the future of the schoolhouse and the concern about it was a separate issue from the future
roundabout. Kordich added that the roundabout was not within the purview of the applicant, and that the issue
that was relevant to the current criteria was that of the onsite wetlands, not the schoolhouse. Kordich noted that
it was the responsibility of the Board to consider the environmental impacts of the project on the onsite
wetlands.
Grandeau asked how much of the wetlands would be disturbed and asked how would they be mitigated.Lansing noted that 0.56 acres would be disturbed and that they would be mitigated through compensatory 
means to the Army Corps. of Engineers. 
Havens noted that he felt the wetlands should be discussed when reviewing SUP Criteria #7 and that the 
church/school should be discussed when reviewing SUP Criteria #9. Havens also added that he felt the 
applicant was following all State regulations with regards to the onsite wetlands. 
8.Will be able to mitigate to the satisfaction of the Board any adverse or irreversible impacts on the environment,
including any growth-inducing aspects of the proposed use;
Grandeau noted that he understood the traffic study stated that there would be no significant detrimental
impact to the area with the project, but still did not see how the project would not have a significant detrimental
impact.
Lansing noted for the Board that the applicant has committed to restoring the schoolhouse completely to OPRHP
standards.
Bormann noted that he felt the additional impervious surfaces created by the project would adversely impact the
onsite wetlands significantly.
Lansing noted for Bormann that the site was subject to a full Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) in
accordance with DEC requirements and that the applicant was required to meet or exceed the current pre-
development capabilities of the site to manage stormwater.
Bormann asked for the adverse effects of traffic during pre and post-construction of the project.
Moran noted that during the AM Peak Hour the current number of vehicles passing the property was 1300.
Moran added that the anticipated future number of vehicles passing the site without construction of the Stein
project was approximately 1350 vehicles during the AM Peak Hour. This number according to Moran was based
on estimated traffic due to already approved projects in the area including those currently in development.
Moran detailed the number of vehicles generated by the Stein project and noted that during the AM Peak Hour
there are projected to be 17 vehicles leaving the site heading West on Route 67 and 24 vehicles leaving the site
heading East. Moran also noted that the number of vehicles entering the site from the West on Route 67 was
projected to be 13 while the number of vehicles leaving the site utilizing the East Line Road access heading
West was projected to be 25 vehicles during the AM Peak Hour and 30 during the PM Peak Hour. Moran also
noted that the number of vehicles headed East from the East Line access during the AM Peak Hour was
estimated to be 37 and 44 during the PM Peak Hour.
Bormann asked Moran what the current road capacity was and what the proposed capacity would be. Bormann
also asked Moran if Route 67 was at capacity or not.
Moran noted that the road was not the dependent variable in this situation but the intersection itself. Moran
stated that the current intersection at AM peak hour had a C level of service with an average delay of 33.6
seconds per vehicle. Moran also stated that if the project were approved, the post-construction average delay at
the intersection would increase to 35.1 seconds per vehicle at the AM Peak Hour. Moran also noted that the
current average delay during the PM Peak Hour was 38.3 seconds per vehicle and that the project would
increase that number to an average of 41.5 seconds per vehicle.
9.Will not adversely affect unique and irreplaceable assets or resources of the area;
Havens noted that the project would not have an effect on any unique and irreplaceable assets or resources.
Kordich asked Everhart to confirm where the school would be moved to if the intersection became a roundabout.
Everhart noted that the applicant identified a location onsite for the schoolhouse if it needed to be relocated.
Stein added that the school would be fully restored to OPRHP standards regardless of the intersection’s future.Kordich asked Everhart if the restoration of the schoolhouse would be the public benefit of the project. 
Everhart noted that a public benefit was not required by law with a Site Plan or Special Use Permit and 
recommended that the Planning Board not consider any kind of public benefit or lack thereof for this project 
since it was not part of the review criteria. 
Viola asked Everhart if the public benefit concern was the responsibility of the Town Board instead of the 
Planning Board. 
Everhart noted that the consideration of a public benefit came up in the situation of a zoning amendment called 
a Planned Development District or PDD when new zoning is being created for a particular project . In that context, 
the Town Board would consider whether the proposed project would create any public benefit. However, she 
reminded the Board that applicants before the Planning Board do not need to demonstrate a public benefit. 
Kordich amended his earlier statement about a public benefit to state that he felt because of the unique 
character of the church/schoolhouse, the Board should consider its future at length. 
Everhart noted that Kordich made a good point and agreed that the Board could certainly consider the future of 
the church/schoolhouse and its potential restoration. 
Stein noted for the Board that the restoration would follow NYS OPRHP guidelines. 
Kordich asked Everhart if it was possible for the Board to institute a condition of approval for the relocation and 
restoration of the church/schoolhouse. 
Everhart noted that the applicant had a proposed location onsite for the church/schoolhouse that would be 
reserved similar to “banked” parking area on other projects  and that this location would be utilized if there was a 
necessity for it in the future. Everhart also noted that unless the project approval would impact the 
church/schoolhouse, she did not recommend that the Board condition approval on restoration of the 
church/schoolhouse. 
Stein added that he would be willing to meet such a condition if a condition of approval were going to be 
required for the protection of the church/schoolhouse. 
Hull added for the Board that if the project were to not be approved, the church/schoolhouse would be at risk of 
deteriorating further instead of it being stabilized and relocated if necessary as stated by the letter received by 
OPRHP. 
10.Will be serviced adequately (as determined by the Board) by essential public facilities and services, including,
but not limited to, highways, streets, parking spaces, public transportation, police, ambulance and fire
protection, drainage structures, solid waste management and refuse disposal, water and sewers, groundwater
protection, schools, energy conservation, as well as any other additional services as the Board deems
appropriate.
Havens noted that his only concern had related to the fire prevention water supply and that it had been
remedied by the contract between the applicant and the water service provider.Resolution #2023 – 35 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau SECONDED  by Dwight Havens to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 22nd day 
of August, 2023 approves Project # 23-08 Stein, Special Use Permit , with the following conditions: 
1.The East Line Church will be stabilized and mothballed following NPS standards as outlined in Preservation Brief
31: https://www.nps.gov/orgs/1739/upload/preservation-brief- 31-mothballing-buildings.pdf. Mothballing work
should, at minimum, include exterior painting, structural stabilization, and roofing replacement. Photographic
documentation of the completed work will be submitted to OPRHP via the existing CRIS project.
2.Historical documentation: The church will be documented in its current condition using digital exterior and
interior photography and a brief narrative history. Photographs should be keyed to site and floor plans. A copy of
the digital documentation package will be submitted to the OPRHP via the existing CRIS project.
3.The applicant resubmit the water report that was submitted in March 2023 noting Northwood Water Company as
the new Water Service Provider.
4.The applicant change the Route 67 access to a Right in Right out only access if and when the Route 67 East
Line Road intersection be converted to a roundabout.
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau - YES 
Ronald Bormann – NO 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens - YES 
William Smith – YES 
Kyle Kordich - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-1 
Resolution #2023 – 36 
MOTION  by Frank Mazza SECONDED  by Dwight Havens to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 22nd day of 
August, 2023 approves Project # 22-21, Stein, Site Plan , with the following conditions: 
1.The applicant satisfactorily addresses the outstanding August 17, 2023 LaBella Associates Comment Letter.
2.The applicant provide an updated final architectural rendering not exceeding the maximum building height of 34
feet.
3.The extension of Northwood Water Company be approved by the Public Service Commission prior to the
chairperson signing final plans.
4.The applicant obtain a Wetlands Disturbance Permit prior to the chairperson signing final plans.
5.The applicant return to the Planning Board for a Site Plan Amendment if changes are proposed to the East Line
Road egress/ingress.
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau - NO 
Ronald Bormann – NO 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens - YES 
William Smith – YES 
Kyle Kordich - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 5-2 
Smith asked to be excused. Viola excused Smith at 8:28 PM. 
23-15, Jerse n Construction Group, Site P lan (Concept)
Scott Lansing presented on behalf of the applicant. 
Lansing noted that the applicant wanted to build a larger headquarters in Malta when they relocate from Waterford. 
Lansing also noted that the property was zoned C-3 NYSERDA, where Light Industry is an allowed use. Lansing stated 
that the proposed site would have two buildings, an office space that would be a 2 story, 6,882 SF building, and a 
15,400 SF maintenance building behind the office space. Lansing also stated that the maintenance building would 
feature 4 garage doors, 3 on the back of the building and 1 on the front. Lansing noted that the front garage bay would 
be aligned with one of the rear bays to allow for through access to the building.  
Lansing noted that there would be two entrances to the site, requiring two curb cuts. The Northern entrance would be for 
customers and the Southern entrance would be for employees, construction vehicles, and heavy equipment. Lansing also 
noted that there would be an outdoor amenity space for customers and employees adjacent to the office building along 
the Northwestern side of the building. The proposed plan includes 60 parking spaces for employees and customers, 
onsite stormwater management, water serviced by Saratoga Water Services, and sewer serviced by the Saratoga County 
Sewer District. 
Lansing noted that LaBella Associates had requested the applicant combine the two curb cuts to the site in an effort to 
minimize curb cuts on Hermes Road; however, the applicant requested that the two curb cuts still be installed in order to 
separate employee and heavy truck traffic from customer traffic. Lansing also noted that a traffic study would be 
completed for the project and stated for the Board that he was before them to answer their questions and comments 
about the project. 
Viola asked Lansing what the height of the two buildings was. 
Lansing noted that the height of the buildings had not yet been determined, but that they would each be under 30 feet. 
Huizinga confirmed that the zoning and use were as Lansing stated and that he had addressed her initial comments. 
Huizinga noted that the conceptual renderings were similar to the HVCC Tech Campus across the street and that she 
would like the final design of the office building to be similar to the Tech campus. Huizinga also noted that she would like 
to see a Lighting and Landscaping Plan and more details about the proposed amenity space in addition to parking 
calculations, traffic study, and stormwater details. Huizinga also suggested that the applicant should consider linking the 
onsite sidewalks to the NYSERDA trail on Hermes Road. 
Hull noted that there were 6 comments in total that he had noted in the August 17, 2023 LaBella Associates Comment 
Letter. 
Viola asked Hull if he would consider keeping both accesses in the interest of safety. 
Hull noted that he would consider this going forward. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
Grandeau asked Lansing if the rear lot would be fenced in and separated from the office building. 
Lansing stated that it would be an enclosed fenced in area. 
Grandeau also noted that he wanted to see additional trails on the site to allow the greenspace to be utilized. 
Lansing noted that the applicant intended to connect the site to the offsite trails in the area but did not plan on building 
trails onsite. 
Kordich asked Lansing to explain the parking design for the customer parking. 
Lansing noted that the customer parking area was designed to reflect more greenspace and be more aesthetically 
appealing. 
Huizinga noted for the Board that Herm es Road was a privately owned r oad that was maint ained by NYSERDA and that 
the future of the owners hip was uncert ain given the potential of NYSERDA to divest its interest in the property. Huizinga 
also not ed that all truck traffic entering and leaving the site wo uld need to use Stonebreak Road to the Sout h of the 
property to access Herm es Road and the sit e. Huizinga stated that no truck traffic associat ed with the site was allowed 
on Dunning Street to the North. 
Everhart not ed for Lansing that she would like to see easem ent language granting t he applicant access on Herm es Road 
at the next stage of project development since it was privately owned. 
23-14, ES-TD Ventures, Site Plan Amendment & Special Use Permit  Public Hearing  (SUP)  
Scott Lansing of Lansing Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant. 
Lansing noted for the Board that the presentation was an amendment to a previously proposed project. Lansing noted 
that there would be two onsite buildings. Lansing stated that the Northern building would remain the same as previously 
proposed , and that the Southern building would be one story now instead of two stories. Lansing also noted that the 
building would be smaller than before, 12,000 SF instead of 24,000 SF due to the loss of the 2nd story .  
Lansing stated that the Southern building would be an office space and for storage (4000 SF office space, 8000 SF 
storage space) Lansing also stated that there would be a single full access off of Route 9 with parking in the rear of the 
site. Lansing also stated that there would be access to the rear of the Southern building by tractor trailer and box trucks. 
Lansing also noted that there would be 97 total parking spaces with 29 banked and 68 installed. Lansing stated that 
stormwater would be managed onsite with the current Stormwater Management Practice and that the site would be 
serviced by Saratoga Water Services and the Saratoga County Sewer District. 
Lansing stated that there would be two onsite amenity areas, one to the North of the Northern building and the other to 
the South of the Southern building. Lansing also stated that the site would exceed the 50% greenspace requirement by 
offering 57% greenspace and that there would be 6 foot sidewalks along Route 9. 
Viola asked what the use of the Southern building would be. 
Lansing noted that the site would be used by Active Solar for offices and storage of equipment related to the Solar 
Industry. 
Cattell noted for the Board that this project required a Special Use Permit because of the Light Industry use in the C- 7 
Zone. Cattell also noted that he wanted to make sure the applicant planted native trees onsite instead of non-native 
species as per previous requests by the Planning Board under the original site plan approval . Cattell also noted that the 
applicant had provided vegetative screening for the residential neighbors that abut the property to the rear. Cattell noted 
the applicant would need to revise plans to show bicycle parking as per the Route 9 North requirement, and wanted to 
know what the onsite amenity spaces would be used for, as well as their square footage .  
Cattell also noted that he wanted to know where the onsite dumpster was going to be located for Phase 1 of the project 
as the phasing plan show ed the dumpster located in Phase 2. Cattell noted that the Malta Ridge Fire Department was 
not satisfied with the current emergency turning plan and wanted an improved fire apparatus access plan that allowed a 
firetruck to make a full loop instead of having to back up to turn around. 
Lansing noted that the new setup for the parking lot should allow fire apparatus to fully turn around by making a loop. 
Cattell also asked Lansing to note where signage would be and requested that the applicant planted at least 4 more 
shade trees in the parking area to comply with Route 9 North design standards.  
Additionally, Cattell noted that the Board may consider requiring additional lighting for pedestrian areas, and that the 
lighting plan may need to be updated to accommodate the sidewalk from the site to the sidewalk along Route 9. 
Hull cited the August 17, 2023 LaBella Associates Comment Letter and stated that his comments were related to fire 
apparatus turning radii, the traffic analysis, stormwater, and onsite lighting. Hull specifically mentioned that while the fire 
apparatus turning plan was satisfactory from an engineering standpoint, his office defers to the Fire Department.  
Lansing not ed that onsite lighting wo uld be a mixture of pole mount ed lighting wit h single and du al head fixtures 
throughout the site and wall mount ed lighting along the building. 
Hull stat ed that he felt this was acceptable. 
Viola ask ed where the closest home was to the project site. 
Lansing not ed that closest hom es to the site were immediately to the East b ehind the site and to the Nort h of the site. 
PUBLIC HEARING 
Viola ope ned the Public Hearing at 9:10 PM. 
Elaine Lambert of 2685 Rt. 9 was concer ned with the increas ed traffic flow wit h specific consideration to truck traffic. 
Viola ask ed if a traffic study had bee n complet ed for the project. 
Hull not ed that a study had bee n compl eted in 2022 and that it was m odified more recently to indicate less trips 
compar ed to the original study. 
Lambert not ed that she mainly was concer ned with heavy truck traffic. 
Lansing stated that VHB complet ed a traffic study and stat ed that there wo uld not b e many trucks accessing the site. 
Lansing als o sta ted that t he traffic study stat ed that there wo uld be 27 trips to the Nort h and Sout h at peak hours. 
Vince Barbaro of 2689 Route 9 was concer ned about how close the amenity space for the Norther n building was to his 
property and that he preferred that the minimum required amount of illumination alon g the sidewalk of the north 
property boundary line be installed. 
Viola ask ed Lansing what kind of buffer wo uld be installed along the property line. 
Lansing outlined the buffers and not ed that the Norther n building was 25-30 feet away from the property line and that 
there wou ld be a vegetativ e buffer that inc luded existing trees along the property line. 
Viola clos ed the Pub lic Hearing at 9:16 PM. 
Everhart not ed for the Board that there may be more materials requir ed by Planning staff and that the Board c ould allow 
as a Condition of Approval that those materials b e only review ed by Planning Sta ff and allow the project to move forward. 
Grandeau ask ed Lansing when he felt the applicant would be moving into t he Norther n building. 
Lansing stat ed that he did not have a definitive answer. 
SPECIAL USE PER MIT CRITERIA 
Everhart r ead the Sp ecial Use Permit Criter ia and Planning sta ff guidance for the Board. 
1.Is listed as a permitted special use in the appropriate zoning district;
Yes. All Board members agreed with this statement.
2.Conforms to the standards and design requirements specified in the Code and the Comprehensive Plan for that
particular zone;
See Site Plan Analysis.  All Board members agreed with this statement.3.Will not have an undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of the neighborhood and surrounding
areas, traffic conditions, parking, utility facilities, or other matters affecting the public health, safety, welfare, or
convenience of the public;
This project is located in a generally commercial area, with a few single family homes. The Speedway is a neighbor
to the south, and two commercial buildings neighbor the site to the north. All Board members agreed with this
statement.
4.Will not create operations or uses that will be considered objectionable to nearby properties by reason of noise,
fumes, vibrations, illumination or other outward effects on others in the zone;
Screening has been provided at the rear of the property to shield the residential neighbors. All Board members
agreed with this statement
5.Complies with any other requirements within the zone;
See Site Plan Analysis. All Board members agreed with this statement.
6.Will be in harmony and promote the general purpose and intent of the Comprehensive Plan;
See Site Plan Analysis. All Board members agreed with this statement.
7.Will not adversely affect the short-term and long-term cumulative impacts on the environment;
The changes to the site plan because of the special use create no additional disturbance than the original site
plan approved on July 26, 2022. All Board members agreed with this statement.
8.Will be able to mitigate to the satisfaction of the Board any adverse or irreversible impacts on the environment,
including any growth-inducing aspects of the proposed use;
Applicant will be required to pay mitigation fees such as open space and traffic as a result of developing this land.
Stormwater will be managed onsite. No wetlands exist on the property. All Board members agreed with this
statement.
9.Will not adversely affect unique and irreplaceable assets or resources of the area;
Correspondence from State and Federal agencies indicated no protected animals or plant life are located on this
site, no wetlands are present, and no cultural or archeological resources are present. All Board members agreed
with this statement.
10.Will be serviced adequately (as determined by the Board) by essential public facilities and services, including, but
not limited to, highways, streets, parking spaces, public transportation, police, ambulance and fire protection,
drainage structures, solid waste management and refuse disposal, water and sewers, groundwater protection,
schools, energy conservation, as well as any other additional services the Board deems appropriate.
See Site Plan Analysis. All Board members agreed with this statement.
Viola noted that his only concern related to Fire Apparatus turning radii and that he felt confident that it would be 
handled in the final plans. 
Everhart asked the Board if they questioned any of the 10 Special Use Permit Criteria. 
No comments were made. 
Resolution #2023 – 37 
SEQRA 
MOTION by Stephen Grandeau SECONDED by Frank Mazza to resolve that the Malt a Planning Board o n the 22nd day of 
August, 2023 determines that Project # 23-14, ES-TD Ventures, Special Use Permit and Site Pl an Amendment, is 
consist ent with the Supplemental Tow n Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is 
required.    
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau - YES 
Ronald Bormann – YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens - YES 
Kyle Kordich - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
Resolution #2023 – 38 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau SECONDED  by Ronald Bormann to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 22nd day 
of August, 2023 approves Project # 23-14, ES -TD Ventures, Special Use Permit , as presented:  
VOTE:    
Stephen Grandeau - YES 
Ronald Bormann – YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens - YES 
Kyle Kordich - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
Viola asked Cattell if the sidewalk along Route 9 would be illuminated or not. 
Cattell stated that Hull would have reviewed the Lighting Plan and that the reason he made the comment about requiring 
pedestrian illumination being under the purview of the Board was related to the fact that original plans for the building 
did not note front doors facing Route 9 as would be required by design standards, and thus the lighting plan would need 
to be updated. 
Bormann asked how bright the lights along the front of the building would be. 
Hull stated that he felt that Lansing would replicate the lighting that was proposed along the side of the building on the 
front. 
Lansing confirmed this. 
Bormann also asked if there would be illumination along the sidewalk bordering Route 9. 
Lansing noted that there would be no illumination along the sidewalk as it wasn’t required.  
Resolution #2023 – 39 
MOTION by Stephen Grandeau SECONDED by Frank Mazza to resolve that the Malt a Planning Board o n the 22nd day of 
August, 2023 approv es Project # 23-14, ES-TD Ventures, Site Pl an Amendment , with the following conditions:  
1.The applicant satisfies all comments in the Town of Malta Planning Department Staff Review dated August 9,
2023
2.The applicant satisfies all comments in the LaBella Associates Comment Letter dated August 17, 2023
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau - YES 
Ronald Bormann – YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens - YES 
Kyle Kordich - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
Meeting Adjournment  
Stephen Grandeau MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Ronald Bormann, motion carried unanimously at 9:35 PM. 
Respectfully submitted by, 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary 
Planning Technician 