
The Town of Malta Planning Board  held its regular meeting on  Tuesday, September 24 , 2024  at 6:30 p.m. at the Malta 
Town Hall, with Co -Chairperson, John Viola  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 John Viola   
 Jean Loewenstein   
 Ronald Bormann   
 Dwight Havens   
 Frank Mazza   
 William Smith   
 Kyle Kordich (LATE)   
  
Absent:     
 
Leejun Taylor   
Stephen Grandeau   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Chairperson Viola  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
23-05 721 NYS Route 67  (Heflin Apartments ) Site Plan  
 
Chairperson Viola  elevated William Smith  to full voting member  status . 
 
Planning Board  Business  
 
MOTION by John Viola  SECONDED  by Frank Mazza  to accept the August 27 , 2024  minutes.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Kordich – yes Ronald Bormann  – ABSTAIN ; Frank Mazza – YES; Dwight Havens  – YES;  
William Smith  – YES; Jean Loewenstein  -  ABSTAIN ; John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED with 5 YES and 2 ABSTENTIONS  
 
 23-05, 721 NYS Route 67 (Heflin Apartments) , Site Plan                                        
 
Doug Flynn  of Lansing Engineering presented for the applicant.  
 
Flynn stated that he was before the Board to request SEQRA and Site Plan approval in order for the project to be able to 
apply for Army Corps. wetland permits and pertinent endangered species coordination. Flynn noted that the parcel is a 
single, 8.11 -acre parcel that is zoned C -2 NYS Route 67 West Overlay. Flynn also noted that the site is currently a vacant 
wooded lot with ACOE Wetlands onsite along the Ballston Creek that ran across the front of the property. Flynn stated that 
the project would be to con struct three (3), eleven (11) unit apartment buildings with associated drives and parking onsite. 
Flynn also stated that the project would feature a single access to Route 67 that would extend to the onsite parking areas 
to service the proposed apartments.   
 
Flynn noted that each building would feature 16 parking spaces with an additional 18 spaces onsite for a total of 66 
parking spaces to meet minimum parking standards. Flynn also noted that comment letters had been received from the 
Fire Department, Labe lla Associates, Saratoga County Planning, and the Clifton Park Water Authority and that all comments 
to date had been replied to.  
 
Huizinga spoke for Planning . Huizinga noted that the project was last  before the Board in December 2023 due to County 
Plannin g requesting additional information. Huizinga stated that the site would feature thirty -three (33) apartments in total, 
that the buildings would be 2 stories, and that Planning had been working with the applicant throughout the year to satisfy 
all Planning  and Engineering comments. Huizinga stated that all Planning comments had been satisfied, that the applicant 
provided renderings for the buildings which would feature a grey -beige, neutral tone with vinyl siding, white trim, and a 
stone veneer. Huizinga no ted that the applicant addressed firetruck overhang issues that were still present in July, that 
they received Will -Serve correspondence from the Clifton Park Water Authority, and noted that if the Board felt comfortable 
moving forward with SEQRA , she reco mmended a resolution stating that the project was consistent with the town -wide 
GEIS and Statement of Findings and that no further SEQRA review was needed. Huizinga added that if the Board were to 
consider project approval at the meeting, she recommended t wo conditions of approval, 1. Obtaining a wetlands 
disturbance permit and 2. Provide a copy of the water purveyor approval and/or permit . 
 
Hull spoke for Engineering . Hull noted that the most recent comments were answered,  and that he would follow up with a 
response letter . Hull added that there were a few remaining items r elated to threatened and endangered species, DEC 
permit for coverage for stormwater, and the NYSDOH approval letter when available for  utilities. Hull no ted that if the Board 
were to approve the project, he recommended a co nditional approval based on the outstanding comments.  Hull added a 
comment about the proposed privately owned road .  He stated that if the road were ever to be turned over to the Town, i t 
would need to be reconstructed to meet Town Highway standards  in place  at that time.  
 
BOARD  DISCUSSION  
 
Prior to beginning the Board Discussion, Chairperson Viola noted for the Board that the applicant was currently seeking a 
SEQRA Determination but that if the Board felt comfortable, they could move forward to approve the entire Site Plan if they 
desired.  
 
Bormann asked about the Traffic Study that was cited at the last meeting  and asked if it took into account the increased 
traffic  that would be created by the project and the additional construction traffic created by other approved projects in the 
area.  
 
Hull noted that the report was reviewed but that he did not have it with him  to cite for Bormann.  
 
Hull asked Flynn if the report included temporary construction traffic.  
 
Flynn stated that he believed the report was based on the full buildout of the completed project.  
 
Bormann asked if other approved projects in the area were considered in the report.  
 
Flynn stated that he wa sn’t sure  but that he did coordinate with VHB about traffic concerns and was unsure specifically 
what the data took into consideration.  
Mazza asked if the turning radius concern Chief Shaw had at the previous meeting had been addressed.  Flynn stated that the plan had been modified to show more substantial snow removal areas that would not impact the fire 
apparatus turning radii of the proposed cul -de-sac. 
 
Hull added that an additional concern related to overhang had been addressed as well for fire ap paratus access with the 
relocation of onsite landscaping and additional pavement being added at the turn around.  
 
Havens asked if the road would be able to handle the weight of heavier firetrucks.  
 
Hull stated that  the sub -base of the road that was typical ly what was considered when determining if a road could handle 
fire apparatus was sufficient, but that other details prevented the road from being built to Town Highway standards. Hull 
added that  there wouldn’t be issues from a functionality standpoint.  
 
Smith asked if there were any special engineering requirements for the bridge since it would be privately owned  and 
maintained.  
 
Flynn stated that the owner would be putting in a bottomless arch culvert.  Flynn also noted that Army Corps. stated that an 
actual bridge was a valid alternative to a bottomless culvert if it were preferred.  
 
Hull noted that the structure  would be designed and signed off by a structural engineer that would need to go through 
building permit consideration with Code Enforcement.  
 
Kordich asked Hull if the concrete box culvert would require its own separate engineering review.  
 
Hull confirmed.  
 
Loewenstein asked if the applicant completed a SWPPP.  
 
Hull stated that the only hold up on final sign off of the SWPP was a report on endangered and threatened species onsite.  
 
Resolution #2024 – 21 
SEQRA  
 
MOTION  by Jean Loewenstein  SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 24th day of 
September, 2024 finds that Project #23 -05, 721 NYS Route 67 multi -family Site Plan, is consistent with the Supplemental 
Town Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich – YES; Ronald Bormann – YES; Frank Mazza – YES; Dwight Havens  – YES;  
William Smith  – YES; Jean Loewenstein -  YES; John Viola  – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 7 -0. 
 
Prior to moving forward Viola asked the Board if they wanted to vote on the Site Plan or if th ey wanted to wait until the 
Saratoga County Planning Board was  satisfied with the project.  
 
Bormann stated that he didn’t want to move forward until his questions about the traffic study were answered.  
 
Havens  asked for clarification on what the delay  was from the Saratoga County Planning Board . 
 
Huizinga  stated that Planning had not received any additional correspondence from the County in over 30 days , and that 
the applicant had responded to County Planning Comments . Huizinga added that it was “unusual” for the County in delaying 
a decision by requesting that the Malta Planning Board wait to approve the project until the applicant received a District 
Extension from the existing Clifton Park Water Aut hority that would service the project. Huizinga added that the County’s 
request was unusual because an applicant typically would receive conditional approval with the condition that the applicant 
obtain the water district extension in order to move forward . Huizinga noted that the County usually leaves the decision to 
the Malta Planning Board instead ; similar to the  way the Board handled the  Mountain View Estates project.  Huizinga also added that NYSDEC, ACOE, and NYSDOH approvals were generally obtained p rior to a water district extension 
being possible. Huizinga noted that the Chairpersons had been advised by Planning Board attorney, Leah Everhart (who 
could not be present at the meeting) that if the Board chose to act on the application, they had valid r eason to act upon it 
since no further requests had been made by the County in over 30 days. Huizinga noted that all requested information had 
been provided, but that the County was not acting on it. Huizinga added that Everhart felt confident that if the M alta 
Planning Board wanted to act and make it a condition of approval that the necessary permits for extending the water district 
were obtained, they could do so. Huizinga stated that it was up to the Board to decide whether or not to move forward.  
 
Loewen stein asked  Huizinga if  approval were granted by the Planning Board , could the  project continue without water.  
 
Huizinga  stated that without water the project could not move forward and added that in Malta an  applicant ha s 3 years 
after initial Site Plan approval  is granted  to move forward  with construction  and a Site Plan extension could be requested.  
 
Viola asked Bormann what he would need to see from the applicant for his concerns to be addressed.  
 
Bormann  stated that he wanted a broader traffic study wi th current traffic numbers and the addition of what traffic would 
be on the road with what was already approved in the area. Bormann also stated that he wanted to see the design of the 
road included in the requested traffic study.  
 
Huizinga noted that the traffic study from July 2023 that VHB completed compared other traffic studies in the area  that 
included already approved projects.  
 
Bormann  noted that he wanted to see all the details associated with the traffic study for himself instead of simply a “yes” 
declaration stating that the road could appropriately handle the increased traffic from the project.  
 
Hull stated for Bormann , when the eng ineering review was completed for traffic during Variance consideration, it was 
completed with industry standards and what was expected to happen  with the full buildout of the area. Hull added that he 
wouldn’t be comfortable recommending  a condition of app roval to check and validate the details of the already completed 
traffic study if Bormann wanted LaBella to revaluate the study. Hull instead suggested that approval be delayed if Bormann 
wasn’t satisfied with what was already presented to him.  
 
Kordich as ked if an additional study would be any different than the one  completed  in July 2023 . 
 
Hull stated that he presumed the study was completed to the level of detail that Bormann was requesting, but that he 
wasn’t sure without actually reviewing it again.  
 
Huizinga noted for the Board that the study completed  by VHB  for the Heflin project included multiple projects in the works 
on Route  67. Huizinga noted that the study predicted 13-17 additional trips for the proposed development . Huizinga also 
noted for Bormann that projects in Malta that generate additional traffic are reviewed by the Capit al Region Transportation 
Council (CRTC) in order to determine what mitigation fees would be incurred by the developer if their project were to  be 
approved.  
 
Hull added that the end result of  the traffic study was what the Heflin project had on the traffic network and the 
surroundings, not what the network and the surroundings were to the project. Hull added that the mitigation fees were 
calculat ed in order to improve the network to alleviate the impacts that the project created.  
 
Viola asked if the Board wanted to move forward.  
 
The Board felt comfortable moving forward.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Resolution #2024 – 22 
MOTION by Jean Loewenstein SECONDED by Frank Mazza to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 24th day 
of September , 2024 approves  Project #23-05, 721 NYS Route 67 mu lti-family Site Plan, with the following conditions: 
1.Applicant to obtain wetland disturbance permit(s).
2.Applicant t o obtain appropriate approvals and/or permits necessary for water supply.
3.Applicant to address the 9/20/2024 LaBella Associates comment letter.
4.If the proposed road is to be turned over to the Town in the future, it will need to be reconstructed to meet th e
Town Highway Standards at that time.
Loewenstein added for the record, in addition to the conditions mentioned above, under General Municipal Law Section 
239, all necessary application materials were submitted to the County Planning Board on 7/3/2024 an d 8/1/2024. A full 
statement of the proposed action was submitted to the County and more than thirty (30) days have elapsed and the County 
has conducted their own review.  
VOTE:   
Kyle Kordich – YES; Ronald Bormann – NO; Frank Mazza – YES; Dwight Havens  – YES; 
William Smith  – YES; Jean Loewenstein -  YES; John Viola  – YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-1. 
Meeting Adjournment  
Jean Loewenstein  MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct  of the Planning Board , SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich , motion carried unanimously at 7:11  PM. 
Respectfully submitted by,  
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board  Secretary  
Planning Technicia n 