
The Town of Malta Planning Board held its regular meeting on Tuesday, March 28, 2023  at 6:30 p.m. at the Malta Town 
Hall, with Co -Chairperson, Jean Loewenstein  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 William Smith   
 Frank Mazza   
 Jean Loewenstein   
 Dwight Havens   
 Ronald Bormann   
 Kyle Kordich   
  
Absent:     
 
John Viola   
Leejun Taylor   
Stephen Grandeau   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Co-Chairperson Loewenstein  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
 
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
10-02 State Farm 1D Site Plan  Extension of Approval  
10-03 State Farm 1A Site Plan  Extension of Approval  
22-25 Arnoff Global Logistics Phase #6  Site Plan  Amendment  
22-21 Stein (750 NYS Route 67)  Site Plan  
23-08 Stein (750 NYS Route 67)  Special Use Permit  
23-07 Terrell  Special Use Permit  
23-05 Heflin (721 NYS Route 67)  Site Plan  
23-06 10 Hermes Road  Site Plan Amendment  
 
 
 
Chairperson Loewenstein appointed William Smith as  a full member . 
10-02 State Farm 1D (40 State Farm Place), Site P lan (Extension of  Approval)
The applicant and owner, R2 Development Partners LLC, requested a two-year extension of approval for the site plan at 
40 State Farm Place. The applicant has experienced difficulty in securing funding and tenants during the poor economic 
climate. The site plan consisted of a 2- story (29’ tall) 76,000 GFA building to be located at 40 State Farm Place (the 
parcel located behind the Hyatt). The zoning is PDD #22, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company. 
SEQRA was completed on May 18, 2010, with site plan approval. 
John Rosenblum of R2 Development presented. Rosenblum noted that the locations would be office spaces and that the 
projects had not moved forward at this point due to the challenge of locating tenants since the 2020 COVID- 19 
pandemic. Rosenblum also noted that the use for the locations had not changed since initial approval and that they were 
still zoning compliant. Rosenblum requested a two (2) year extension of approval for the site plan that included 40 (1D) 
State Farm Place which would expire on May 18, 2023 and 10 (1A) State Farm Place which would expire on September 
28, 2023. 
Huizinga noted that the applicant had requested extensions and was granted them in the past and that the Planning 
Board had the ability to grant up to a two (2) year extension for approval on the project. Huizinga also recommended that 
the Board should grant an extension for both projects separately, one for 40 State Farm Place and one for 10 State Farm 
Place respectively. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
Chairperson Loewenstein asked Huizinga if the Board would be able to grant an extension of approval prior to the actual 
expiration date of the projects. 
Huizinga informed Loewenstein that pre-expiration approval would not be an issue and the early approval would be 
based on convenience for both the applicant and the Board to not have to come back separately for each project. 
Loewenstein asked if the project as it was being presented would be able to meet all requirements for engineering, 
stormwater, and zoning for the area. 
Huizinga stated that the project in its current form met all requirements and the applicant would need to return to the 
Planning Board with a Site Plan Amendment application if anything were to change from what was originally approved. 
Rosenblum noted for the Board that the SWPPP permit was up to date and was paid for annually to ensure that the 
project could move forward once tenants for the property had been acquired. 
Resolution #2023 – 07 
MOTION  by Ronald Bormann SECONDED  by William Smith to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 28th day of 
March 2023 approves Project #10-02, State Farm 1D (40 State Farm Place), Extension of approval, for 2 years, from 
May 18, 2023 to May 18, 2025. 
VOTE: 
Kyle Kordich – YES  
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
10-03 & 10-19 State Farm 1A (10 State Farm Place), Site P lan (Extension of Approval)
The applicant and owner, R2 Development Partners LLC, is requesting a two-year extension of approval for the site plan 
at 10 State Farm Place. The owner has installed the utilities and has a building permit ready set of drawings but is still in 
the process of securing tenants which is necessary before they move forward with construction. The site plan consists of 
a 2-story, 27,425 SF GFA building to be located at 10 State Farm Place (the parcel located to the west of the Hyatt). The 
zoning is PDD #22, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Compan y. 
SEQRA was reaffirmed on September 28, 2010, with site plan amendment approval. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
No comments were received from the Planning Board. 
Resolution #2023 – 08 
MOTION  by Frank Mazza SECONDED  by Ronald Bormann to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 28th day of 
March 2023 approves Project #10-03 & 10-19, State Farm 1A (10 State Farm Place), Site Plan Extension, for 2 years, 
from September 28, 2023 to September 28, 2025. 
VOTE: 
Kyle Kordich – YES  
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
22-25, Arnoff Global Logistics Phase #6, Site Plan Amendment ___ 
The applicant, Arnoff Moving-Storage-Rigging has submitted a Site Plan amendment for the expansion of their existing
Arnoff Global Logistics campus located at 10 Stonebreak Road. The applicant proposed a plan to construct an 110,164 
SF light industry/commercial/warehouse building #4 (304) with associated parking east of the existing Building #3 
(302). The most eastern access would be moved approximately 150 feet further East on Stonebreak Road. 
Scott Lansing of Lansing Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant. Lansing noted that updated plans with the 
correct elevations for the project , updated renderings, and Landscaping and Lighting plans had been submitted to the 
Planning Department. 
Lansing also noted that the requested “Will Serve” letters fro m both Clifton Park Water Authority and Saratoga County 
Sewer District had been received and submitted to the Planning Department. 
Huizinga noted that the applicant had addressed of the Planning comments and that the Saratoga County Highway 
Department had reached out to Planning and approved of the needed curb cut for the project. Huizinga also noted that 
the applicant would need a Highway Work Permit from the County DPW prior to obtaining building permits .  
Huizinga also noted that she did not take exception to Engineering comments. Huizinga noted that SEQRA was 
determined in February 2023 and recommended approval based on the applicant satisfying any remaining engineering 
comments and reiterated her comment about a Highway Work Permit. 
Reuben Hull, LaBella Associates, noted that he concurred with Fire Department comments from February needing to be 
addressed and that he wanted the applicant to choose a hardier species of street/parking trees to better handle the 
environment onsite. 
Loewenstein asked Hull if Sewer and Water reports had been received by Engineering. March 28, 2023 
Page 4 of 14 
Hull confirmed that they had been received but had not yet been reviewed. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
Loewenstein asked Lansing if he would be able to address Hull’s comments regarding tree species.  
Lansing confirmed that he would be able to address those comments. 
Loewenstein asked Hull if all Stormwater comments had been addressed. 
Hull confirmed that there were no other comments regarding Stormwater.  
Kordich asked if Lighting had been approved for the site plan. 
Hull said that Lighting comments had been satisfied. 
Resolution #2023 – 09 
MOTION  by Frank Mazza SECONDED  by Ronald Bormann to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 28th day of 
March, 2023 approves Project #22-25, Arnoff Global Logistics Phase #6, Site Plan Amendment, with the following 
conditions: 
1.The applicant satisfy any and all remaining engineering comments from th e March 21, 2023 Labella Associates
comment letter.
2.That a Saratoga County Highway Work Permit be obtained prior to obtaining building permits.
3.Addressing any and all fire department comments.
Kyle Kordich – YES
Ronald Bormann - YES
Frank Mazza – YES
Dwight Havens – YES
William Smith – YES
Jean Loewenstein - YES
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
Prior to the beginning of the Stein presentation, Chairperson Loewenstein recused herself and appointed William Smith 
as Chairman of the Board for their presentations. 
22-21, Stein (750 NYS Route 67), Site Plan
The applicant, Ronald Stein, proposed  a site plan to develop a 11.69± acre site located at the corner of East Line Road 
and NYS Route 67 with a three-story (62,654 SF footprint) building with 139 apartments and 7,700 square feet of first 
floor retail space (3 commercial units), associated parking, outdoor amenity space, utilities and landscaping. The existing 
c.1780 church/school building will be relocated on site. A new full-access curb cut is proposed on NYS Route 67
approximately 470 feet east from the East Line Road and Route 67 intersection. The existing full access on East Line
Road would be relocated north approximately 70 feet.
Scott Lansing of Lansing Engineering presented on behalf of the applicant. Lansing stated that his main goal for the 
evening was to receive comments from the public during the Public Hearing. Lansing noted that there were both State 
and Federal wetlands onsite, and that the structure would contain 139 units, 39 two bedroom units and 100 one 
bedroom units. Lansing also noted that the structure had been redesigned from a four (4) story building to a three (3) 
story building and had been decreased in size from its original design. 
Lansing noted that access to the site would be from NYS Route 67 and East Line Road with a primary access on Route 
67. Lansing also noted that the accesses would need to be coordinated with the NYSDOT and that a traffic study was
underway through VHB Engineering.
Lansing stat ed that parking for the location w ould feature a tot al of 227 parking spots, and includes parking for 
residents, visitors, and reta il customers. Lansing also stat ed that the propos al met all Tow n Code requirements and 
included interior sidewalks that connect ed the apartments to m ain roads, and street lights and street trees.  
Lansing also m entioned that there was an interest from the applicant to incorporate trails in the futur e, but there was no 
definitiv e plan for trails at that tim e. Lansin g stat ed that the site featur ed 64.5 % greenspace whic h exce eded the 
requir ed amount of 40%. Lansing also stat ed that there was a full SWPPP p lan for the project, that stormwater wo uld be 
manag ed onsit e, and that water wo uld be provid ed by the To wn of Balls ton vi a a water m ain by the Stewart’s Shop on the 
SW corner of the intersection. Lansing also not ed that public sewer w ould be provid ed by the Sarat oga County Sewer 
District v ia a connection on the Nort h side of the property. 
Lansing stat ed that he did not take exception to the remaining Engineering comments that were y et to be address ed and 
noted that he felt that he would need to come back in the future in order to satisfy those remaining comments and any 
other concerns pos ed by the Planning Board and th e public. 
Huizinga noted that a Special Use Permit wo uld be needed for the mixed-use proposal in the C-2 zone . Hui zinga also 
noted that prior to final approv al a lot consolidat ion would need to be complet ed for the church structure v ia the Town 
Assessor’s offic e. Huizinga stated that Planning is waiting on the traffic analysis, a SWPPP, “Will Serve” letters from 
Water and Sewer providers, and that wetland disturbanc e permits wo uld be required in order for the project to proceed . 
Huizinga noted that the applicant was at the meeting for the Public Hearing portion of t he Sp ecial Us e Permit process 
and that the Board s hould review the 10 Sp ecial Use Permit considerations prior to moving forward wit h approval. 
Huizinga suggest ed that the Board s hould act on the site p lan and sp ecial us e permit at the same time. 
Reub en Hull, LaBe lla Associates, noted that he had sever al comments. H ull requested two traffic studies, one for the 
intersection as the current standard 4 way intersect ion, and one if the intersection becomes a roundabout. Hull also 
want ed the Site Pla n to show access es based on the curr ent intersection and a roundabout intersection. Hull also noted 
an onsite retaining wall on the property that seem ed to be wit hin the wetlands and want ed that addressed. H ull also 
want ed more details pertaining t o stormwater management and how the syst em would work onsite. 
BOARD DISCUSSION 
Borm ann ask ed Lansing if the square foota ge of the building had increas ed since the last submission and if that would 
affect FD access. 
Lansing stat ed that t he square foota ge did increase and that he would work wit h the Fire Departm ent regarding how the 
change wo uld affect access. 
Havens was concern ed with interior fire department access and want ed to make sure the desig n of the complex would 
allow for easy Fire Department access t o staircases.  
Lansing not ed Havens comments and stat ed that they wo uld be considered. 
Kordic h concurr ed with Hull regarding the two traffic studies for the site and ask ed what the plans were for the church. 
Lansing stat ed that for now the church wo uld be relocated and further plans were in the works for future restoration. 
Stein add ed that he would like to restore and repurpose the structure as a retail location while keeping the exterior as 
true to the historic al character as possible. 
Lansing add ed that t he traffic study that was being complet ed would consider the intersection as a standard four way 
and as a roundabout. 
Mazz a asked Lansing about the configuration of the access to the property from Route 67. 
Lansing stat ed that the access on 67 wo uld be a full i n and right out unless the traffic study suggest ed a better 
alternativ e with mountable curbs for Fire Departm ent access regardless of the design. 
Chairpers on Smit h ope ned the Pub lic Hearing at 7:04 PM. The Pub lic Hearing wo uld be left open until a later date. 
Josep h Duffy, 733 Route 67, not ed that he liv ed across the street and was concern ed with how the applicant would be 
grant ed the ability to construct a 3 story structure when he stated that he wasn’t. Duffy was also concern ed with 
stormwater flow given that the propos ed location was higher tha n where he liv ed across the street and ask ed the 
applicant how long the project wo uld take to complete. 
Stein not ed that he was hopeful the project wo uld start in a year. 
Duffy not ed that traffic on Rout e 67 was very heavy and want ed to know if the roundabout wo uld be one or two lanes 
since his home and his neighbors are very close to the road. Duffy also want ed to know if he and his neighbors would be 
able to connect to public water and sewer whe n it was provid ed to the project and if his and his neighbor’s well water 
would be test ed during construction to detect and prevent potential contamination. 
John Bard, 2 Timber Trace, ask ed about the landsc aping for the site, if it wo uld feature trees or shrubbery. 
Lansing and H uizinga noted that the landsc aping would be a mixture of tre es and shrubbery. 
Barbar a Connor, Browne ll Road, felt that there were too many apartments being propos ed given the traffic being very 
heavy in the ar ea. She felt that traffic wo uld use Browne ll Road to alleviate the build-up on Rout e 67 and this concerned 
her sinc e according to her knowledge, Browne ll Road was slat ed to rema in “rural” . 
Erica Pietrafesa, 6 Timber Trace, felt that the traffic was too heavy currently and that the propos ed number of apartments 
would further exacerbate those issues.  
Pete Shaw, Chief, Malta Ridge Fire Department, brought up his comments from the Fire Department’s perspective . He 
recommended a larger water main, standpipes in stairways , adding an additional egress for one of the stairways in the 
building, and relocating fire hydrants to allow for better access. 
Lynn Davis, Timber Trace, felt the 3 story building was too muc h for the area and that the relocation and repurposin g of 
the church/school took away from the character of the building. Davis was also concer ned with light and noise pollution 
caus ed by the site and was concern ed with the tree buffer not being enoug h for a comple x of this size. Davis also asked 
about if open spac e would be allow ed on site or not and i f the wetlands wo uld be consider ed at a higher level of review 
since they are designat ed as NYS DEC wetlands instead of standard review. 
Chairperson Smit h inform ed Davis that her concerns would be investigated. 
Joe D uffy felt that the Board need ed to take their time to go over the project in detail prior to moving forward. 
Smit h stat ed for the pub lic that the roundabout at the East Line and NYS Route 67 intersection was not something that 
the Tow n of Malta c ould answer questions about, it was a NYSDOT project and the DOT w ould need to be contacted 
regarding any future questions.  
Smit h also not ed that the timing of t he roundabout bein g construct ed was unknown. 
Lansing not ed that a SWPPP will be submitt ed and that the traffic analysis will confirm the amount of trips on the road. 
Smit h not ed that 10 criter ia wo uld need to be address ed regarding the SUP and ask ed the Board if they had any 
questions about the criteria. 
23-08 Stein (750 NYS Route 67), Speci al Us e Permit
The applicant, Ronald Stein, requested a Sp ecial Us e Permit for a Mix ed Use developm ent on a 11.69± acr e site located 
at the corner of East Line Road and NYS Route 67 consisting of a three-story (62,654 SF footprint) building wit h 139 
apartments and 7,711 SF of first floor retail spac e (3 commercial units), parking, outdoor amenity spac e, utilities and 
landscaping. The existing c.1780 church/school building wo uld be relocat ed on sit e. A new full-access curb cut is 
propos ed on Route 67 approximately 470 feet east from the East Line Road and Route 67 intersect ion. The existing full 
access on East Line Road wo uld be relocat ed north approximately 70 feet. A tot al of 226 parking spac es are proposed. 
BOARD DISCUSSION 
The Board reviewed the Special Use Permit criter ia set forth in §167-38.1. 
SPECIAL USE PER MIT CRITERIA 
1.The use listed is a permitted special use in the appropriate zoning district;
Yes, C-2 zoning identifies Mixed Use as specially permitted use. 
2.Conforms to the standards and design requirements specified in the Code and Master Plan for that particular zone;
Yes, the proposed use will be compliant with the standards and design requirements of the C2 Route 67 West Overlay 
Zone, Comprehensive Master Plan, and Commercial Corridor Design Standards & Guidelines. 
3.Will not have an undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of the neighborhood and surrounding
areas, traffic conditions, parking, utility facilities, or other matters affecting the public health, safety, welfare or
convenience of the public; 
Kordich felt that traffic conditions would be adversely affected by this project. He felt the amount of apartments and 
potential cars adding to the already heavy traffic conditions at the intersection would make the situation worse. He also 
felt that safety would need to be considered due to the current traffic conditions being worsened by the proposed project. 
4.Will not create operations or uses that will be considered objectionable to nearby properties by reason of noise,
fumes, vibrations, illumination or other outward effects on others in the zone.
The proposed use should not create any objectionable operations. The proposed use/project is proposing a 6’ privacy 
fence along the eastern property line and vegetated buffer. 
5.Complies with any other requirements within the zone;
Yes. 
6.Will be in harmony and promote the general purpose and intent of the Master Plan;
Kordich did not feel that this project fit well with the intent of the Master Plan in this area of Malta and felt this needed to 
be considered. 
7.Will not adversely affect the short-term and long-term cumulative impacts on the environment;
Kordich felt that the proposed use would affect 0.5 acres of the onsite wetlands and offsite areas as well due to 
stormwater runoff. 
8.Will be able to mitigate to the satisfaction of the Board any adverse or irreversible impacts on the environment,
including any growth-inducing aspects of the proposed use;
Kordich felt this was unknown at the time of the meeting. 
9.Will not adversely affect unique and irreplaceable assets or resources of the area;
The existing c-1780 church/school will be relocated on site. 
10.Will be serviced adequately (as determined by the Board) by essential public facilities and services, including, but
not limited to, highways, streets, parking spaces, public transportation, police, ambulance and fire protection,
drainage structures, solid waste management and refuse disposal, water and sewers, groundwater protection,
schools, energy conservation, as well as any other additional services as the Board deems appropriate.
Chairpers on Smit h stat ed that the f inal consideration will be review ed during futur e Planning Board meetings whe n the 
applicant returns. 
Smit h ask ed Lansing if he had any comments about the Sp ecial Us e Permit Criteria. 
Lansing stat ed that he did not. 
Smit h ask ed Lansing how far the propos ed entrance on Route 67 was from the turnin g lane at the intersection to go 
Sout h on East Line Road since the lane itsel f stretc hed down Route 67 for a long distance. 
Lansing was not sure how far it was from the turning lane and stat ed that he would look into it and that it wo uld be part 
of the traffic study for the projec t. 
Once the Stei n presentat ion was completed, Chairpers on Smit h stepp ed down and Jea n Loewenstei n return ed from her 
recus al to chair the remainder of the meeting. 
23-07 Terrel l (2795 US Route 9), Sp ecial Use Permit
The applicant, Racing City LLC, requested a special use permit to operate a machine shop for a concrete pumping 
service.  The shop will be located in an existing building located at 2795 Route 9. Code Enforcement determined the 
proposed use qualifies as a machine shop and therefore is allowed in the C7 zoning district by way of a special use 
permit. The applicant would not be making any changes to the exterior of the site. No fuel would be stored onsite and 
concrete would be washed out from the trucks on job sites. 
Rich Saxton of Racing City, LLC presented for the applicant. He request ed a Special Use Permit for a satellite office for 
Racing City, LLC to store concrete trucks, water, and Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF). 
Huizinga noted that the site is located in the C-7 Zone and is part of the Adirondack Deck PDD # 14A which had approved 
uses added to the zone in 2018. Huizinga noted that a Special Use Permit was needed because the proposed use was 
determined to be a machine shop by Code Enforcement. Huizinga also asked the applicant to clarify what would be done 
onsite since the applicant’s description of their plans included repair and maintenance of concrete pumps. 
Saxton stated that Racing City, LLC was a concrete pumping business in Albany that featured truck mounted pumps. 
Saxton noted that this location would be used for truck storage to be closer to jobs to the North of Albany. 
Huizinga asked Saxton if any repairs would be done to the trucks onsite. 
Saxton stated that no repairs would be done onsite. 
Huizinga stated that Code Enforcement considered the business a Machine Shop that needed a SUP because of the use 
that was being proposed and the history of businesses where repairs and modifications were made being onsite. 
Huizinga also stated that the Board would need to review the 10 Special Use Permit Criteria set forth in §167-38.1 for 
their consideration. Huizinga also noted that a full site plan would not be needed for the project since it was similar to a 
change of tenancy for the site with no changes being made to the site itself. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
Kordich asked the applicant how many trucks would be onsite and if they would be inside or outside. 
Saxton stated that there would be 2 or 3 trucks onsite and stored inside . 
Kordich asked if the applicant would be taking over the entire site. 
Saxton stated that the trucks would be parked there and a 100 gal water tank and DEF storage tank would be onsite. 
Loewenstein opened the Public Hearing at 7:45 PM. 
Loewenstei n clos ed the Public Hearing at 7:46 PM.  There were no comments from the public. 
Loewenstei n ask ed Huizinga if the Board ne eded to go through the Special Use Permit Criteri a prior to or after making a 
SEQRA determinat ion on the project. 
Huizinga stated that either w ould be acceptable and recomm ended that the project be consider ed consist ent with the 
Supplement al Town-Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings.  
SPECIAL USE PER MIT CRITERIA .  The Board review ed the criteria. 
1. The use list ed is a permitt ed special use in the appropriate zoning district;
The C7 zoning chart stat es that a machine shop is allowed in this zo ne. Code enforcem ent determ ined that, bas ed upon 
the description the applicant submitted, the use of a concrete pumping service station qualifi es as a machine shop. 
2.Conforms to the standards and design requirements specified in the Code and the Master Plan for that particular
zone;
The proposed use will be compliant with the standards and design requirements of the Code and Comprehensive Plan 
because no alteration to the exterior of the building is proposed. 
3.Will not have an undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of the neighborhood and surrounding
areas, traffic conditions, parking, utility facilities, or other matters affecting the public health, safety, welfare or
convenience of the public; 
The proposed action should not have an adverse effect upon the adjacent properties as no changes are happening to the 
exterior of the building, and the business would not generate retail traffic – only concrete trucks and employee vehicles. 
4.Will not create operations or uses that will be considered objectionable to nearby properties by reason of noise,
fumes, vibrations, illumination or other outward effects on others in the zone.
The proposed use should not create any objectionable operations. 
5.Complies with any other requirements within the zone;
Yes. 
6.Will be in harmony and promote the general purpose and intent of the Master Plan;
Yes. 
7.Will not adversely affect the short-term and long-term cumulative impacts on the environment;
No. 
8.Will be able to mitigate to the satisfaction of the Board any adverse or irreversible impacts on the environment,
including any growth-inducing aspects of the proposed use;
Staff recommend it does as there will be no additional disturbances and the only chemical material to be stored onsite in 
bulk (Diesel Exhaust Fluid) will be stored in approved containers and according to any applicable NYS laws. 
9.Will not adversely affect unique and irreplaceable assets or resources of the area;
The use should not adversely affect unique and irreplaceable assets/resources because no expansion of the site is 
occurring. 10.Will be serviced adequately (as determined by the Board) by essential public facilities and services, including, but
not limited to, highways, streets, parking spaces, public transportation, police, ambulance and fire protection,
drainage structures, solid waste management and refuse disposal, water and sewers, groundwater protection,
schools, energy conservation, as well as any other additional services as the Board deems appropriate.
Yes. 
Resolution #2023 – 10 
SEQRA  
MOTION  by Jean Loewenstein SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 28th day of 
March, 2023 determines that Project #23-07, Terrell, Special Use Permit is consistent with the Supplemental Town Wide 
GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
VOTE: 
Kyle Kordich – YES  
Ronald Bormann – YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
Resolution #2023 – 11 
MOTION  by Kyle Kordich SECONDED  by Dwight Havens to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 28th day of 
March, 2023 approves Project #23-07, Terrell, Special Use Permit, with the following conditions: 
1.The applicant would not make any additional changes onsite.
2.The only chemical stored in bulk onsite would be stored in approved containers in accordance to any applicable
New York State laws.
Kyle Kordich – YES
Ronald Bormann - YES
Frank Mazza – YES
Dwight Havens – YES
William Smith – YES
Jean Loewenstein - YES
Motion CARRIED 6-0 
23-05 Heflin (721 NYS Route 67), Site Plan (Concept)
The applicant, Garry Heflin, proposed a concept site plan on a 8.11± acre site located at 721 Route 67 for three (3) two-
story, 11 unit apartment buildings with associated garage parking and outside parking (72 spaces total), sidewalks, 
utilities and landscaping. The applicant requested feedback from the Planning Board prior to developing a complete site 
plan application. 
Yates Scott Lansing, Lansing Engineering, presented on behalf of the applicant. Lansing noted that his objectives were to 
introduce the project to the Planning Board, receive their initial comments, and to return at a later date for additional 
comments and project approval. 
Lansing noted that a front yard setback variance would be needed from the Zoning Board of Appeals for the project. 
Lansing also noted that the project was located east of East Line Road, the site is approximately 8.11 acres and the site 
is zoned C-2 NYS Route 67 West Overlay. 
Lansing also m entioned that ther e are environmenta l constraints onsite due to the Ballston Creek including the flood 
zone of t he stream, a tow n designat ed 100 foot buffer zone from the creek, and Army Corps of Engineers (ACOE) 
wetlands. 
Lansing not ed that the project sit e is adjac ent to the Zim Smit h Trail and that the propos ed multi-family facility wou ld be 
locat ed towards the back of the property near the tr ail. Lansing also not ed that the project wo uld require a stream 
crossing that wo uld necessitate a culvert in order to reac h the upland area of site where three (3), elev en (11) unit (33 
units in total) apartm ent buildings would be construct ed with associat ed parking. Lansing not ed that 8 of the 11 unit 
complex es would have garag es with 48 exterior parking spaces, totaling 72 parking spac es for the project.  
Lansing stat ed that the project wo uld feature greenspace that wo uld comprise 80 % of the entire parcel, w ould require a 
full SWPPP, and wo uld be servic ed by the Tow n of Ballsto n for water from the NYS Route 67 intersection and the 
Sarat oga County Sewer District for sewer connect ed at the back of the property al ong the Zim Smit h Trail.  
Lansing also not ed that onsite wetlands disturb ed would be less tha n 1/10 of a n acre wit h the stream crossing of the 
Ballston Creek, and that t he project m et all zoning requirements except for the 500 foot setback that is requir ed for the 
multifamily use in the C-2 zone and that a variance would be need ed in order to construct the structur es on the property. 
The varianc e request wo uld be for 300 feet from the front property li ne, requiring a 200 foot variance.  
Lansing not ed that the applicant felt the propos ed use was the best fit for the parcel give n other allowed us es in the C- 2 
zone and intend ed to construct the apartments towards the rear of the parcel to keep the apartments secluded and to 
mitigate the environmental constraints towards t he front of the property. 
Lansing stat ed that his intentions were to present the project to the Zoning Board of Appeals and return to the Planning 
Board if the ZBA grant ed the applicant a variance. 
Huizinga confirm ed that the zoning for the property was C-2 Route 67 West Overlay and wo uld need an area variance for 
the project to move forward. H uizinga also not ed that the parcel was at most 500 feet deep and since the project was 
still in its early stag es she did not have many comments at that time bey ond noting that the applicant wo uld need a 
wetland disturbance permit, a stream crossing permit, utility permits, and a stormwater management plan. 
Huizinga also not ed for the Board that the area was rezon ed in 2016 by the Tow n Board as C-2 West Overlay to 
encourage growt h in the are a and that extension of public utilities was inc luded in the rezoning of the corridor. 
BOARD DISCUSSION 
Loewenstei n ask ed Lansing how far the propos ed access wo uld be from Raym ond Road. 
Lansing stat ed that the access wo uld be approximately 250 feet from Raymond Road but wo uld provide a definite 
answer at a later date. 
Smit h ask ed Lansing if the buildings wo uld be sprinkled. 
Lansing stat ed that he believ ed the units wo uld be sprinkl ed but wo uld confirm this for Smith. 
Mazz a ask ed if the waterline for the project wo uld be the same waterline that wo uld be servicing t he Stein project. 
Lansing confirm ed this. 
Mazz a stat ed that he felt the water line wo uld need to be increas ed in size in order to meet fire suppression 
requirements. 
Lansing stat ed that he would work wit h the Tow n of Ballston to meet this request. 
Mazz a ask ed Lansing if the applicant w ould be able to construct a fire lane for apparatus to tur n onsite. 
Lansing not ed that the setback from the stream wo uld prohibit the applicant from creating a turnar ound lane for fire 
apparatus. 
Kordic h ask ed Lansing how far the project wo uld be from the Zim Smit h Trail and how wide the stream wo uld be at the 
propos ed crossing. 
Lansing stat ed that the tr ail was approximately 60-80 feet from the site and that the stream was approximately 8 feet 
wide at the site of the propos ed crossing. 
Havens ask ed Lansing how close the furthest building was from the Ballston Cre ek at its Souther n corner. 
Lansing not ed that the location of the building was close to the stream and was unsure how far it was at that point but 
would confirm the measurem ent and relocate the building if necessary.  
Loewenstei n ask ed Lansing i f a traffic study wo uld be need ed for the project. 
Lansing not ed that the Board c ould decide to request one but since the project would generate less tha n 100 trips that a 
study wo uld not be need ed for the EAF. 
Loewenstei n stat ed that since NYS Route 67 had suc h heavy traffic she felt a traffic study wo uld be wise for the applicant 
to complete. 
Hull not ed that he felt the applicant s hould provide a traffic study give n the location of the propos ed access to the site 
not being in line wit h Raymond Road due to onsite wetlands and the Ballst on Creek impeding access to the site. 
Loewenstei n reiterat ed the comm ent that the applicant wo uld need to stay out of the Tow n designat ed 100 foot buffer 
from the Ballston Creek and that the applicant wo uld need to obt ain permits from the ACOE. 
Huizinga request ed a pedestr ian connection to the Zim Smit h Trail from the site to whic h Loewenstei n agreed wit h the 
request. 
Lansing stat ed that access wo uld be provid ed to bot h the Zim Smit h Trail and out to NYS Route 67. 
Loewenstei n ask ed Lansing i f he was scheduled to go before the Z oning Board at that time. 
Lansing stat ed that he had not y et applied to go before the ZBA but would do so in the following months. 
23-06 10 Herm es Road, Site P lan Amendment (Concept)
The applicant, Herm es Development, LL C, requested a site p lan amendm ent for the commercial developm ent at 10 
Herm es Road. The applicant proposed a 12,000 square foot addition to the existing building (22,983 SF), demolition of 
an existing tower, and modification to the existing parking lot. T he building wo uld be occupied by G&G Industrial Lighting 
for the use of light manufacturing, design, and engineerin g of industrial lighting. 
Scott Lansing of Lansing Engineering present ed on behalf of the applicant. 
Lansing stat ed that he was before the Board to present the project and receive comments from the Board. Lansing also 
noted that the project wo uld require a Lot Line Adjustment (LLA) and preliminary fin al engineering review in order for the 
applicant’s project to move forward and that he would retur n once this had bee n completed. Lansing also not ed that the 
project is locat ed at 10 Herm es Road, zo ned C-3 NYSERDA, light industrial and is an allow ed use for the ar ea, and 
currently houses a 22,983 SF building. 
Lansing not ed that the applicant is proposing a 12,000 SF addition to the curr ent structure wit h three (3) loading docks 
at the rear of the building and wo uld require the demolition of a n existing tower on the sit e. Lansing also not ed that the 
site featur ed 103 parking spac es with 22 bank ed parking spac es included and that stormwater wo uld be managed 
onsite.  
Lansing stat ed that the site wo uld be servic ed by existing utilities and that the required LLA wo uld be betwee n 10 and 30 
Herm es Road and wo uld be need ed for the propos ed loading docks to allow for truck access to the new addition and an 
applicatio n for the LLA would be submitt ed at a later date. 
Huizinga noted that the sit e was slat ed to be sold to G&G Industrial Lighting conting ent on Site P lan approva l. Huizinga 
also noted that a LLA will be need ed that c an be determin ed administratively but will need to be complet ed or as a 
condition of approv al during Site Pl an approv al from t he Board. Hu izinga also ask ed the applicant if any modifications 
would be done to the outside of the building and informed them that Planning wo uld like to see renderings of any 
potential modifications. 
The applicant not ed that they wo uld be updating the exterior of the building and stat ed that they wo uld happily provide 
renderings. 
Huizinga noted that all truck traffic wo uld need to be rout ed to Rock et Drive and Stonebreak Road throug h the industrial 
park since no truck traffic wo uld be allow ed on Dunning Street. This was stress ed in order to preserve the tranquility of 
the residential neighborhoods to the Nort h of the site on Dunning Street. 
The applicant suggest ed including signs noting a “truck route” that wo uld avoid the residential area on Dunning  Street. 
BOARD DISCUSSION 
Smit h ask ed the applicant if the addition would be sprinkled. 
Lansing and the applicant confirm ed that the addition would be sprinkled. 
Borm ann ask ed the applicant about the utility pit that had an electric al service contained wit hin it and ask ed what their 
intentions were wit h it. 
The applicant stat ed that they plan ned on cutting the electric al servic e, demolishing and filling the pit, and providing a 
new overh ead electric al service to the site. 
Borm ann also ask ed the applicant if there were any environmental concerns wit h the utility pit give n its age and the site 
originally being Starfire and the Malt a Test Site.  
The applicant stat ed that a full environmental review was underway to confirm any environmental issues that might be 
onsite. 
Loewenstein ask ed the applicant if the environmental review wou ld be provid ed to the Tow n once it was completed. 
The applicant stat ed that the review w ould be provided. 
Loewenstei n ask ed Huizinga to clarify her SEQRA recommendation. 
Huizinga noted that SEQRA had bee n complet ed in 2003-2004 for the STEP Park and that she did not have a clear 
SEQRA recommendatio n at that time for the new project. H uizinga also felt that the project wo uld be consist ent with the 
origina l SEQRA and the Supplemental Town-Wide GEIS once all informat ion was provid ed by the applicant. 
Planning Board Business  
MOTION by Ronald Bormann  SECONDED  by Jean Loewenstein to accept the February 28, 2023 minutes. 
VOTE: 
Kyle Kordich – ABSTAIN 
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
William Smith – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
Motion CARRIED with 5 YES and one ABSTENSION 
William Smith MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich, motion carried unanimously at 8:15 p.m. 
Respectfully submitted by, 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary 
Planning Technician  