
The Town of Malta Planning Board held a Special  meeting on Wednesday , May 31, 2023  at 6:30 p.m. at the Malta Town 
Hall, with Co -Chairperson, John Viola  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 Stephen Grandeau   
 Dwight Havens   
 Jean Loewenstein   
 John Viola   
 Frank Mazza   
 Ronald Bormann   
 Leejun Taylor   
 Kyle Kordich   
  
Absent:     
 
William Smith   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Co-Chairperson Viola  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
 
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
16-09 Independent Senior Apartments  Extension of Approval  
23-11 Retrograde Recon Center  Site Plan Amendment  
23-01 2272 US -9 Senior Apartments  Site Plan  
23-01A 2272 US -9 Senior Apartments  Special Use Permit  
 
 
 
 
 
Co-Chairperson Viola elevated Leejun Taylor to full Board Member status.  
 
 
 
16-09, Indep endent Senior Apartments, Site P lan (Extensio n of Approval)
The applicant requested an extension of site plan approval, originally granted on 6/21/2016 to construct a 4-story, 100-
unit senior living (55+) apartment complex on a 5.8 acre lease parcel. The complex included resident dining, library, 
theater, fitness center, salon, country store, and multiple gathering and activity spaces.   
Owner/Applicant: Saratoga Hospital; Location: Medical Park Drive; Parcel ID:  229.-2-75.111; Zoning: PDD No. 52 
Matt Brobston of the LA Group presented for the applicant. Brobston requested an extension of approval for the project. 
Huizinga spoke for the Planning Department. Huizinga noted that the last approval was in 2021 and that the current 
approval would next expire on June 26, 2023. Huizinga recommended a two (2) year extension. 
Resolution #2023 – 22 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau SECONDED  by Jean Loewenstein to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 31st day 
of May, approves Project #16-09, Independent Senior Apartments, Site Plan Extension of Approval, until June 26, 2025 
as presented: 
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau - YES 
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
Leejun Taylor – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
23-11, Retrograde Recon Center, Site Plan Amendment
Scott Lansing of Lansing Engineering presented for the applicant. 
Lansing stated that he was before the Board to request approval for a Site Plan Amendment and to note changes that 
had been made to the design of the facility since the last Planning Board meeting. The original Site Plan was approved on 
2/28/2023. The app licant decided to decrease the size of the facility due to financial reasons.  
Lansing noted that the back portion of the facility was removed, decreasing the size of the facility from 18,927 SF to 
15,092 SF, and it featured an extra service bay since the project was originally approved increasing the number of 
service bays from 16 to 17. Lansing also noted that the number of parking spaces onsite increased with the change to 
the facility from 174 spaces to 190 spaces. 
Floria Huizinga spoke for the Planning Department. Huizinga noted that she felt the project was consistent with the Town-
Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings with regards to SEQRA and recommended that no further SEQRA review was 
required. 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
Loewenstein asked Engineering if they had any comments regarding earlier comment letters. 
Reuben Hull of LaBella Associates stated that he was satisfied with the applicant’s response to their comments.  
There were no other comments from the Board. 
Resolution #2023 – 23 
SEQRA 
MOTION by Je an Loewenstein SECONDED by Stephen Grandeau to resolve that the Malt a Planning Board on t he 31st day 
of May, 2023 determin es that Project #23- 11, Retrograde Recon Center, Site P lan Amendm ent is consist ent with the 
Supplement al Tow n Wide GEIS and Statement of Findings and therefore no further SEQRA review is required.    
VOTE: 
Stephen Grandeau - YES 
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
Leejun Taylor – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
Resolution #2023 – 24 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau SECONDED  by Ronald Bormann to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 31st day 
of May, approves Project #23- 11, Retrograde Recon Center, Site Plan Amendment, as presented: 
VOTE:    
Stephen Grandeau - YES 
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES  
Leejun Taylor – YES  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola - YES 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
Board Member Kordich arrived to the meeting at 6:40 PM and replaced Board Member Taylor as a voting member for the 
remainder of the meeting. 
23-01, 2272 US -9 Senior Apartments, Site Plan
Scott Lansing presented for the applicant. Lansing stated that the application was before the Board in January as a 
concept. Lansing also stated that he was at the 5.31.2023 meeting to present a plan for preliminary approval. Lansing 
noted that the project site is located at 2272 US Route 9, immediately North of the Round Lake Bypass, and that the 
current use of the site is for the Starting Gate Cottages.  
Lansing also noted that the property is 6.31 acres and zoned C-9 Gateway in the front of the property and R-1 Residential 
in the rear. Lansing stated that the current structures would be demolished and a new 19,000 SF 3- story senior housing 
facility would be built in their place. Lansing also stated that the facility would be 48 units, sprinkled, accessed via US 
Route 9 at the Northeast corner of the property. Lansing noted that there would be 96 parking spaces, two for each unit. 
Lansing also noted that stormwater would be managed onsite, that water would be provided by Saratoga Water Services 
with a Water Service District Extension and that public sewer would be provided by the Saratoga County Sewer District 
#1. 
Lansing also noted that the applicant intends to build a second building with the same design as the first building. The 
second building would be located at the rear of the property. If that rear section of the property were to be rezoned after 
the Town of Malta Comprehensive Plan update is adopted. 
Huizinga spoke for the Planning Department. Huizinga stated for the Board that she felt property line boarder at the 
North of the property s hould be landscaped more i n consideration of the neighbor to the North. Huizing a also felt that the 
project need ed more outdoor amenity space suc h as a community garden, seating areas, walking tr ail, and/or outdoor 
gathering space and request ed d 6 foot wide sidewalks, not 5 foot wide sidewalks alon g Route 9. 
Hull spoke for Engineering. Hull not ed that he want ed more detailed calculations for stormwater at the SE corner of the 
property where the stormwater drain ed towards the roundabout. Hull also want ed more details on what planting 
materials wo uld be us ed for landsc aping and a traffic assessm ent for the property. 
BOARD DISCUSSION 
Loewenstei n echoed Huizinga’s comments about outdoor amenity spac e, she felt that there ne eded to be more outdoor 
amenity spaces. Loewenstei n also ask ed Lansing how tall t he building was. 
Lansing not ed that the building desig n was 46 feet tall but wo uld adjust the height t o meet the Tow n of Malta’s 
requirements. 
Kordic h also felt there should be more “active” outdoor amenity spac es closer to t he building. 
Grandeau echoed the comments made by other Board members about outdoor amenity spac es such as a fountain, 
pond, or putting gre en. Grandeau also want ed to see fire truck turning radii. 
Mazz a felt that a rais ed median near the roundabout to access the site wo uld be detriment al to fire apparatus access. 
Lansing not ed that the entrance wo uld be a full access entrance and was far away from the rais ed median at the 
roundabout. 
Mazz a also ask ed Lansing for access to the site prior t o the demolit ion of the existing structur es for fire department 
training. 
Lansing agreed to this. 
Havens ask ed Lansing how long the building was because he was concern ed about fire fighter access. 
Lansing stat ed that he would look into that since the f inal desig n for the building had y et to be completed. Lansing also 
stated that there wo uld be multiple access es to the building. 
Havens not ed that upper level access wo uld need to be consider ed and that the location of the fire hydrant s hould be 
locat ed at the entrance near Route 9 for ease of access. 
Mazz a add ed that he wanted to know where the water came from to supply the site for fire suppression. 
Havens stat ed that the water came across Route 9 from the East side of the road to access the site. 
Lansing stat ed he would m ention this to the applicant. 
Havens also ask ed about water flow for the site. 
Lansing stat ed that he would confirm the numbers but felt they exceed ed all requirements. 
Viola not ed to Lansing that all outdoor ameniti es would be requir ed to not interfere wit h fire access. 
Lansin g acknowledged Viola’s comments and agreed. 
23-01A, 2272 US-9 Senior Apartments, Sp ecial Use Permit        Public Hearing  
Viola opened the Public Hearing at 7:00 PM. 
Maya McDonough, the owner of the property commented that the property was very close to the Zim Smith Trail. 
McDonough felt that the close proximity of the property to the Trail was an additional benefit that the project offered to 
the community. 
The Public Hearing remained open until a later date. 
South Shore Marina PDD Lead Agency  Designation Discussion  
Leah Everhart, Legal Counsel for the Town of Malta Planning Board addressed the Board to discuss designating the 
Malta Town Board as the Lead Agency for the South Shore Marina (SSM) Planned Development District (PDD) project. 
Everhart explained to the Planning Board that the Town Board was considering a Legislative Enactment regarding the 
South Shore Marina project to become the Lead Agency for the project. Everhart also explained that if the Town Board 
became the Lead Agency for the project, they would be who would be conducting Environmental Review pertaining to the 
project. This review would occur prior to approving funds for or undertakes the project.  
Everhart also noted that if the Town Board became Lead Agency for the SSM project, they would need to coordinate with 
the Planning Board as an involved agency. Everhart explained that the Town Board would be asking the Planning Board if 
they would be willing to allow the Town Board to take on the responsibility of conducting the SEQRA review for the SSM 
project.  
Everhart also explained that due to the timing of the project review process, she recommended that the Planning Board 
adopt a motion at the 5.31.2023 Planning Board meeting to designate the Malta Town Board as the Lead Agency for the 
SSM project. Everhart opened the topic for discussion and asked the Planning Board if they had any questions regarding 
her recommendation. 
Loewenstein asked if the Town Board needed to make the request to become the Lead Agency for the project in writing. 
Everhart asked Huizinga if a resolution had been made by the Town Board. 
Huizinga stated that she wasn’t sure if a resolution had been adopted since she last attend ed a Workshop for the SSM 
project. Huizinga also noted that at the last workshop the Town Board discussed asking the Planning Board if it had 
deferred the Lead Agency designation when the project was last referred from the Planning Board to the Town Board. 
Huizinga stated that at that time the Lead Agency designation had not been deferred to the Town Board. 
Everhart noted that she thought the Town Board had adopted a motion at the last Town Board meeting. 
Kordich asked Everhart if the Planning Board had given the project a negative recommendation and sent it back to the 
Town Board when it was last before the Planning Board. 
Everhart confirmed this. 
Kordich asked Everhart to clarify if the Town Board was asking the Planning Board to allow them to make the SEQRA 
review for the project. 
Everhart informed Kordich that the Town Board was not doing that entirely. Everhart stated for Kordich that the Agency 
with the most expertise and control over a project was the appropriate Lead Agency for the project. Everhart also noted 
that if the Planning Board wanted to challenge the request of the Town Board to become the Lead Agency for the SSM 
project, there was a formal “challenge procedure” under the regulations that would involve the Commissioner of the NYS 
Departm ent of Environmental Conservation. Everhart noted that the outcome of the “challenge procedure” would award 
the ability to complete the SEQRA r eview to the party that won the “challenge procedure”.  
Huizinga noted that this would involve the Planning Board going through the Long Form Environmental Assessment Form 
(Long Form EAF) and anythin g associat ed with the process for the project. 
Kordic h ask ed if designating the Tow n Board as the L ead Agency for the project wo uld involve giving up any of the 
Planning Board’s rights involv ed with the project. 
Huizinga stated for Kordic h that designating the Tow n Board as the L ead Agency would not give up any of the Planning 
Board’s rights associat ed with the SSM project, but wo uld facilitate allowing the To wn Board to conduct the SEQRA 
review process themselves. 
Everhart not ed that the designation of the L ead Agency was a procedur al step in the SEQRA process that is not usually 
seen by the Malt a Planning Board because Malt a has a Generic Environmental Impact Statement (GEIS), allowing the 
Planning Board to for go coordinating wit h every agency involv ed in the SEQRA process like other communities that do not 
have a GEIS agreement.  
Everhart reiterat ed that the Tow n Board was seeking Lead Agency status for the SSM project and that the Planning Board 
was in the position to either agree or disagree to the Tow n Board becoming the L ead Agency. This statement was 
follow ed by Everhart recommending that the Planning Board allow the Malt a Tow n Board to become the L ead Agency for 
the SS M project because it didn’t make sense to disagree wit h the Tow n Board’s request. 
Kordic h not ed that it did make sense to disagree wit h the request so that the Plannin g Board c ould not be blamed if 
there was pub lic unrest from the Tow n Board making the decisions regarding SEQRA and moving forward wit h the 
project. 
Everhart not ed that the review effort for the underlying action s hould be kept separate conceptually from SEQRA review. 
Everhart stat ed that the SEQRA review for t he project need ed to be complet ed despite opinions bas ed on the project. 
Everhart add ed that in an unbias ed way the entity that is completing that review should be the entity that has the most 
involvement in the project. 
Kordic h not ed that this was the reason for his comments. 
Everhart not ed that she recomm ended the Planning Board adopting a resolution at the 5.31.2023 Planning Board 
meeting give n the timing of where in the process that the To wn Board was at wit h the project at that point. 
Viola ask ed Everhart if the project wo uld come back t o the Planning Board after Tow n Board review. 
Everhart not ed that the project wo uld come back to the Planning Board and that the decision bas ed on designating a 
Lead Agency was not the act ual SEQRA review but the action of deciding what entity w ould complete the SEQRA review 
process. Once the L ead Agency was designated, that agency wo uld complete the SEQRA review and make a decision 
regarding the zoning amendm ent that wo uld be need ed for the approv al of the SSM project. I f the zoning amendment 
were approved, the project w ould then come back to t he Planning Board for Site P lan approval. 
Kordich ask ed if all the project wo uld need is Site Pla n review. 
Everhart not ed that she did not know if it wo uld need any other form of review to reac h final approval. 
Huizinga noted that the project wo uld only need Site P lan review. 
Everhart ask ed Huizinga if a Subdivision w ould need to be complet ed for the project. 
Huizinga noted that she did not think there wo uld need to be Subdivis ion review. 
Everhart add ed that a Subdivision may be necessary in the future for financing purpos es but that at the curr ent time the 
only review going forward wo uld be Site Pl an revie w once the zoning amendm ent for the SSM project was approv ed by 
the Tow n Board. 
Loewenstein not ed that because the Tow n Board had t he authority over the z oning associat ed with the project they would 
act as L ead Agency in most cas es given that the Planning Board did not have authority over changing the zoning 
associat ed with the project. 
Huizinga and Everhart confirm ed this for Loewenstein. 
Loewenstei n ask ed Everhart if a motion would ne ed to be made regarding designating the Malt a Tow n Board as the Lead 
Agency for the SSM project. 
Everhart said y es and recomm ended the Planning Board adopt a motion wit h the language that the Tow n of Malta 
Planning Board consent to designating the Tow n of Malta Town Board as the L ead Agency for the Sout h Shore Marina 
PDD. 
Resolution #2023 – 25 
MOTION by Je an Loewenstein SECONDED by Frank Mazza to resolve that the Malt a Planning Board on t he 31st day of 
May, 2023 consents to the Tow n Board acting as the L ead Agency for the SEQRA review process for the Sout h Shore 
Marina PDD project. 
VOTE: 
Kyle Kordich - NO 
Stephen Grandeau - NO 
Ronald Bormann - NO 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – NO  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola - NO 
Motion STRUCK DOWN 5-2 
Everhart asked the Planning Board if they wanted to challenge the Lead Agency role of the Town Board for the SSM 
project. 
Bormann noted that he remembered the project being almost unanimously voted against citing that the Board felt the 
project was not a good fit for the proposed location. 
Everhart clarified that deciding who completed the SEQRA review or completing the review itself did not affect the 
outcome of if the project continued or not. Everhart also noted that if the Planning Board wanted to challenge the Lead 
Agency designation, they would need to go through the additional step that would involve the Commissioner of the 
NYSDEC. 
Huizinga added that if the Planning Board went through with deciding that they wanted to be the Lead Agency for the 
SSM project, it would involve a significant amount of extra work, additional meetings, and coordination with the Town 
Board to complete the SEQRA review. 
Grandeau noted that he felt the Town Board was making decisions regarding the SSM project that were purposely not 
including the Planning Board. Grandeau also noted that he felt that the Town Board would send the SSM project back to 
the Planning Board with specific stipulations that wouldn’t allow the Planning Board to do its job effe ctively. 
Everhart noted that Grandeau’s concerns would not be an issue because the SEQRA review of the project was not 
“supposed to be an end run around the underlying decision making authority of the Board”.  
Grandeau added that he knew it wasn’t suppose d to be the underlying authority of the Town Board but felt that it would 
influence it. 
Everhart replied to Grandeau by saying that regardless of who conducts SEQRA review, the Town Board would be making 
the decision on if there would be rezoning or not. If the rezoning were approved, the project would then come back to the 
Planning Board with “any of the conditions and limitations” that he was concer ned about wit h very little to do wit h which 
Board reviews SEQRA. 
Kordic h ask ed Everhart to exp lain what control the Planning Board w ould have over the SSM project if they gave the 
Town Board the ability to review SEQRA, the Town Board approv ed the project, and then s ent it back to the Planning 
Board for Site P lan review. 
Everhart stat ed for Kordic h that if the SSM PDD zoning amendm ent were approv ed by the Tow n Board, the project would 
then come back to the Planning Board and they wo uld have authority to alter the design of the project as they saw fit 
within the regulations of t he PDD Legislation. Everhart also add ed that the Planning Board had the ability to review the 
Town Board’s legislation during their review and c ould make recommendations about it if they were interested. 
Everhart also not ed that if the reviewing agency adopt ed a positive SEQRA declaration and an additional SEQRA process 
was requir ed for the project, the Planning Board had t he opportunity to adopt a Findings Statement for the project once 
the addit ional SEQRA review was completed . This meant that the Planning Board’s role going forward c ould involve the 
opportunity to review SEQRA in the future in addition to Site P lan review for t he project. Everhart add ed that it made 
sense for the Town Board to conduct the SEQRA review for the SSM project give n their role in the over all revie w process 
of the project. Everhart recomm ended that the Planning Board reconsider a motion to designate the Tow n Board as the 
Lead Agency for conducting SEQRA review for the Sout h Shore Mar ina PDD project. Everhart stat ed that she would 
pursue the process of challengin g the L ead Agency designation if necessary, but did not feel like that was a wise decision 
for the Planning Board to make. 
Loewenstein noted that despite the differing opinions about the SSM project, the decision to designate the Lead Agency 
for the project was somewhat separate. Loewenstein added that if the Town Board were to reconsider the project in any 
form since it is a legislative action, it is their authority and responsibility to do so. Loewenstein also noted that the Town 
Board would not be able to ignore SEQRA and that it would need to go through the process, a process that did not affect 
the overall approval or disapproval of the project itself. 
Kordic h not ed that his earlier decision was bas ed on the fact that he did not agree wit h the SS M project and felt that the 
Planning Board’s hands were tied wit h regards to the project. Kordic h also not ed that he understood that designating a 
Lead Agency for SEQRA would not change the outcome of the project and wou ld do what he c ould to influence t he overall 
decision regarding the project separate from SEQRA when he was able to do so.  
Grand eau noted that he wou ld change his vote from the previous motion to allow t he Tow n Board to become the Lead 
Agency for SEQRA and added that he felt there were actions being taken b ehind the scenes by the Tow n Board that 
pushed the Planning Board aside that he disagreed with. 
Borm ann also chang ed his mind regarding his earlier decision about SEQRA L ead Agency designation for the Sout h Shore 
Marina PDD project. 
Resolution #2023 – 26 
MOTION by Je an Loewenstein SECONDED by Frank Mazza to resolve that the Malt a Planning Board on the 31st day of 
May, 2023 consents to the Tow n Board acting as the L ead Agency for the SEQRA review process for the SSM PDD 
project. 
VOTE: 
Kyle Kordich - YES 
Stephen Grandeau - YES 
Ronald Bormann - YES 
Frank Mazza – YES 
Dwight Havens – NO  
Jean Loewenstein - YES 
John Viola - NO 
Motion CARRIED 5-2 
Planning Board Business  
Stephe n Grandeau MOTIONED to adjour n the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct of the Planning Board, SECONDED by Frank Mazza, motion carried unanimously at 7:28 PM. 
Respectfully submitt ed by, 
David E. Jaeger, Jr. 
Planning Board Secretary 
Planning Technician 