
The Town of Malta Planning Board held its regular meeting on Tues day July 23 , 2024  at 6:30 p.m. at the Malta Town Hall, 
with Co -Chairperson, Jean Loewenstein  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 Dwight Havens   
 William Smith   
 Stephen Grandeau   
 Jean Loewenstein   
 Frank Mazza   
  
Absent:     
 
John Viola   
Leejun Taylor   
Ronald Bormann   
Kyle Kordich   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
Chairperson Loewenstein  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
 
 
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
24-08 Philly Subdivision (Stewart’s Road ) Minor Subdivision  
24-12 Adirondack Trust (2510 US Route 9)  Form Based Code Project Plan  
24-13 Dunning Street Apartments (118 Dunning Street)  Form Based Code Project Plan  
24-14 128-132 Cramer Road  Special Use Permit  
 
 
 
 
Chairperson Loewenstein  elevated William Smith  to a full voting member.  
 
 
 24-08, Philly Subdivision (Stewart’s Road ), Minor Subdivision                      Public Hearing  
 
Scott Kitchner of Stewart’s Shops presented. Kitchner stated that 10 lots w ould be consolidated into 4 lots to remain 
with Stewart’s and 1 lot for the road itself to be dedicated to the Town. Kitchner stated that t he road w ould provide 
access to Route 9 for Charlie’s  Stay and Play . Kitchner noted that the r oad eventually may be expan ded to loop around to 
the Stewart’s corporate office. Kitchner stated that the r oad was proposed as over 700’ long  and that a Stormwater 
Management Basin for the road would be located on Stewart’s property.  
 
Huizinga  reviewed planning staff comments . Huizinga noted that the applicant was requesting l ot consolidations and a 
minor subdivision . Huizinga noted that Stormwater Management would be  owned and maintained by Stewart’s, and that 
there would be access easement fo r town  to inspect the facilities if necessary. Huizinga added that a SWPPP would be 
required for the project , and that  13 Lot Line Adjustments (LLAs) would be needed  to make 4 lots . Huizinga noted that 
the lot consolidations and lot line adjustments would create 4 lots,  
 
Huizinga stated that l ighting  would be installed  along road and at Route 9 and requested that the proposed lighting be 
added to the plan. Huizinga added that w hen/if future development  happens  along  the road , the T own w ould want 
sidewalks  for pedestrian connectivity but that it was unne cessary at th at time with CSP being the only business on the 
road. Huizinga added that the Malta Ridge FD  requested  a truck turning plan for the cul-de-sac, and that there were 
some engineering concerns  that could change  the lot sizes slightly . 
 
Loewenstein asked for the lots to be identified on the map to make it easier to follow along with the presentation.  
 
Huizinga noted that in her Staff Review the lots w ere identified as follows:  
 
Lot 1:  would be 93± acres of vacant lands.  Lot consolidation of parcel 204.04 -1-4 and 5, a portion of 204.04 -1-42.1  
and 4.2, a portion of 204.0 -1-11.1 and 204. -4-21.2 to be merged.  
Lot 2:  would be 5.456 acres; Lot Line Adjustment between 204.4 -1-92 and portion of 204.4 -1-42.2; 204.4 -42.1  
and 204.4 -47 to be merged.  
Lot 3:  would be 5.619 acres, Charlies Stay and Play.  
Lot 4:  future Road would be 2.878 acres.  Portions of parcel 204.04 -1-42.2, 42.1, 11.1 and 47 to be merged.  
 
Hull spoke for engineering . Hull asked Kitchner to explain what would happen with the existing easement that would 
cross the proposed road.  
 
Kitchner noted that of the L -shaped easement, the lower portion along the Sout hern side of the proposed road would 
remain, but that the portion going to the North that crossed the proposed road would be eliminated.  
 
Hull stated that he also wanted a truck -turning template for fire apparatus . DOT would need to review the entrance at 
Route 9 .  Hull wanted to know if the proposed road would replace the existing access to CSP, and stated that he would 
defer to DOT for any concerns they have about ensuring the intersection met DOT standards with regards to access and 
sight distances. Hull  added that the Town of Malta Highway Department wanted  a larger turning radii for curves and to 
increase the road profile to a 1.5 -2% grade given that the intention was to expand the road in the future. Hull also 
mentioned that he wanted to see what utili ties would be brought in with the road since it was unclear on the map, that a 
SWPPP would be required, and that he wanted to see a Stormwater Management Facility Maintenance Agreement 
completed prior to sign off.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Loewenstein stated that she was concerned about the applicant needing to tie up loose ends.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Chairperson Loewenstein opened the Public Hearing at 6:45  PM. 
 
John Perreault of 20 Woodmint  Place wanted to know what the zoning was for the site. 
 
Huizinga  stated that the zoning for the site and the properties involved was C -8 Commercial and that the Stewart’s corporate campus was the Planned Development District (PDD) #34: Stewart’s Ridge. Huizinga added that in the C -8 
Commercial District t he first 500 feet from Route 9 was commercial only and that beyond the first 500 feet, residential 
uses were allowed.  
 
Perreault asked if a factory could be built within the first 500 feet.  
 
Huizinga stated that a factory was not allowed within the C -8 and  that she could not discuss the details of what uses 
were allowed within the C -8 Commercial District because the list of uses was too numerous to go into at the meeting and 
that it was not the topic of discussion. Huizinga noted for Perreault that he could  look up the C -8 Commercial District 
uses on the Town’s website.  
 
Nancy Fodera of 745 Malta Ave Ext ension was concerned about the lighting on the road being very bright from her home. 
Fodera also asked if the road would curve more to the South closer to he r home once it was expanded and what the 
property would look like once the road was expanded and the property was further developed.  
 
Huizinga noted that in the Stewart’s PDD there was a requirement that stated the Stewart’s corporate campus would 
need to connect to Route 9 further South from its location once the property was fully developed. Huizinga also noted 
that the proposed location of the road was noted in the Town Comprehensive Plan.  
 
Fodera asked if the road would curve further to the South than i t currently did.  
 
Huizinga stated that the road was proposed as curving to the Northeast from the proposed cul -de-sac once it was further 
developed.  
 
Fodera noted that whatever the outcome of the placement of the road was that her main concern was the ligh ting being 
visible from her home.  
 
Dana Noble of 56 May Apple Way is also concerned about the future of the road and wanted to know what the density of 
the PDD was. Noble asked If homes  were built , how many  could be proposed and  what the long-term  plan was.  
 
Loewenstein  stated for Noble that the Board was currently only considering a Subdivision (SD) application, not the long -
term outcome of the PDD. Loewenstein added that any other proposals would have to be brought up at a later date in a 
different ap plication.  
 
Noble asked if homes or commercial properties were being considered as part of the proposed subdivision.  
 
Huizinga stated that the application was for the proposed road only.  
 
Noble stated that he still wanted to know what the future was beyond  the construction of the road and asked what the 
responsibility of the Planning Board was in regards to the future of the area.  
 
Grandeau stated for Noble that the responsibility of the Planning Board was to consider what was being presented by an 
applicant  and added that the Board did not get involved further unless something else was being proposed.  
 
Mazza stated for Noble that it was completely possible that a road could be built to service CSP only and that it could 
exist that way permanently if  no further development occurred.  
 
Noble added that he also wanted Planning Board Meetings recorded like the Town Board Meetings so that residents 
could understand what was going on in town. Noble felt that from what he saw happening in town, it was the Pl anning 
Board that was the decision -making Board.  
 
Loewenstein stated that the Malta Planning Board was required by the Legislative Board of Malta, the Town Board to 
follow the rules and regulations that were set in place by that Board, the Town Board. Loew enstein added that if the 
Planning Board had concerns about a proposal, they were allowed to bring it up to the Town Board, but that the Town 
Board ultimately was the decision maker on Legislative changes.  
 
Noble stated that he had recently attended a Town  Board meeting where a statement by one of the counci lmembers  that was backed by other councilmembers that Malta was growing and that if the growth wasn’t controlled, it would grow out 
of control. Noble added that the Town Board stated the Town needed to place a hold on things until they could figure out 
what they wanted to do. Noble asked the Planning Board if they received that message from the Town Board or not.  
 
Loewenstein stated that the future of development in the entirety of Malta was not the topic of discussion at that 
moment and that the Planning Board was only going to focus on the projects being presented.  
 
Everhart interjected and stated that Noble had reached his time limit for comments . Everhart noted for everyone that 
they had a three -minute limit that she was keeping track of with a timer that had an audib le alert once the three -minute 
limit had been reached.  
 
Jane Chasin of  64 Admirals  Way asked about the construction of a three -story building onsite.  
 
Huizinga stated that the three -story building that Chasin was referring to was not part of the current pr oject.  
 
Chasin stated that she would return later when that project was being discussed for her comments.  
 
Lawrence Lieberman of 1 May Ap ple Way was concerned with the safety  of the cul -de-sac being the only access to the 
property.  
 
Loewenstein stated for Lieberman that even though she did not know the future layout of the road, if  further 
development happens on the property the road would loop around to the Stewart’s headquarters and provide a second 
access to Route 9.  
 
Huizinga confirmed that the Stewart’s Ridge PDD required the road to loop around if future development were to occur.  
 
Lieberman  asked if additional roads would connect to the proposed road with the cul -de-sac. 
 
Loewenstein stated that it was a  possib ility but that the project being discussed was for lot consolidation and the 
construction of the access to the property with a cul -de-sac terminating the road allowing Charlie’s Stay and Play to have 
an access to Route 9 built to the standards of a Malta Town Road.  
 
Glen  Souliere of  2023 Rowley  Road  asked how many kennels would be at Charlie’s Stay and Play.  
 
Huizinga stated that since Charlie’s Stay and Play had already been approved and since it wasn’t the topic of the 
proposal being considered, comments regarding that project coul d not be discussed.  
 
Souliere asked how long the road was going to be.  
 
Kitchner stated that the length of the proposed road including the Stewart’s campus was approximately 1700 feet.  
 
No other comments were received from the public  
 
Chairperson Loewenste in left the P ublic Hearing  open until all concerns were addressed.  
 
Everhart asked Loewenstein to confirm what the applicant needed to address. Everhart noted that she wrote down the 
following concerns:  
 
1. Provide the correct proposed lot numbers on the map.  
2. Answer Engineering comments about the road curvature.  
3. Submit a Fire Apparatus Turn Radius plan.  
4. Provide a Lighting Plan.  
 
Huizinga noted for Everhart that lot numbers were on the map but that they were difficult to read.  
 
Kitchner stated that he would  increase the font size on the next rendition of the map.  
 Everhart asked Kitchner what mechanism Stewart’s was using to eliminate the portion of the access easement that was 
no longer needed . 
 
Kitchner stated that the easement existed as an access for Stewart’s to their property prior to owning the property that 
the easem ent crossed over.  
 
Everhart noted that the applicant’s attorney would need to note in the deed that will be dedicated to the Town that there 
is no longer a need for the access easement to the property in question because Stewart’s now owns that property.  
 
Kitchner stated that the North -South portion of the easement wasn’t discussed and that he assumed it would go away 
with the purchasing of the property. Kitchner noted that the East -West portion of the easement would be retained.  
 
Everhart stated that those details would be worked out further down the road.  
 
Hull noted that his only other substantive comment was related to stormwater and added that if the applicant went 
through the entire engineering comment letter and addressed Huizinga’s comments that  Engineering would be satisfied.  
 
24-12, Adirondack Trust (2510 US Route 9), Form Based Code Project Plan                         Public Hearing  
 
Prior to the beginning of the Adirondack Trust presentation, Loewenstein stated for the record that since the p resentation 
was for a Form Based Code project, the Board’s responsibility was only to offer comments and hold a Public Hearing after 
which the decision process would be left to Planning Department staff and the Building and Planning Coordinator.  
 
Bren nan Drake of Phinney Design Group and Jeff Anthony of Studio A Architects presented on behalf of the applicant.  
 
Brennan Drake noted that his firm and Studio A had been hired by Adirondack Trust to renovate the location at 2510 
Route 9. Drake noted that the  renovation was intended to make the existing branch tie in better with the current design 
aesthetic of the Adirondack Trust Company with more modern styling and a reorientation of the building to face Route 9. 
Drake stated that the new design would place the building closer to Route 9 .  The design includes  a new sign on the front 
of the building and  exterior and interior modifications for the remainder of the project.  
 
Jeff Anthony stated for the Board that the entire focus of the project was to improve vi sibility and ease of access to 
building  by reorient ing the  building to face street. Anthony noted that the proposal included eliminating the parking to the 
North of the building while retaining the parking that was closest to the building. Anthony noted th at the decision to 
eliminate some of the parking was due to the fact that it simply wasn’t necessary. Anthony also stated that there would 
be no changes to stormwater management other than the decrease in runoff due to the elimination of some of the 
parkin g. Anthony also stated that a band of plantings would be included in front of the parking along Route 9 to help 
camouflage parking cars from view of the street. Anthony also noted that the drive -thru teller window would be improved 
so they could be more ac cessible and so that there could be a by -pass lane for cars that do not want to wait in line. 
Anthony noted that the fire department requested that a n apparatus access plan be employed and that after conducting 
the assessment it was determined that the entrance and exit to the site should be altered to allow for a wider turning 
radius for fire apparatus to more easily navigate the site.  
 
Huizinga stated for the Board that the purpose of the presentation before the Planning Board was to hold a Public 
Hear ing and to receive Planning Board comments for the project .  The  project  receive s administrative approval. Huizinga 
reviewed planning  comments  and noted the  property is in the DX-3 zoning  district , and that the applicant had addressed  
most of her concerns related to parking, landscaping, and the aesthetics of the building. Huizinga noted that the 
renovated  building generally met Form Based Code (FBC),  and would be a n improvement  to the site , and noted that the 
project may require an Area Variance from the Z oning Board for the proposed wall sign that would be suspended from 
the front pillars of the building.  Huizinga added that the applicant would be using native plantings as suggested, that they 
provided a fire apparatus turning plan and that the proposed ma terials used for the façade would be metal panels and 
timber beams. Huizinga stated that overall, she was satisfied  with the proposal.  
 
Sean Doty , PE, Suozzo, Doty and Associates spoke for engineering. Doty stated that a formal  engineering  review of the 
application was not necessary, but that he made a suggestion to Planning staff about the fire apparatus access and that 
his comment was forwarded to Studio A for their review.  
 BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Grandeau stated that he liked the proposal and felt it was a significant improvement on what is currently  there.  
 
Loewenstein  asked how many parking spots would be onsite once the renovations were completed.  
 
Anthony stated that there would be 16 spaces in total with the removal of the parking to the North and shifting parking 
closer to the building.  
 
Loewenstein asked if the applicant could decrease parking further.  
 
Anthony stated that technically they did not need 16 spaces.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Chairperson L oewenstein opened the Public Hearing at 7:13  PM. 
 
No comments  were received  from the public.  
 
Chairperson Loewenstein closed the Public Hearing at 7:14  PM. 
 
24-13, Dunning Street Apartments (118 Dunning Street), Form Based Code Project Plan          Public  Hearing  
 
Prior to the beginning of the presentation, Loewenstein stated that the Dunning Street project is a Form Based Code 
project that would have a Public Hearing and receive comments from the Board, but that the approval  process for the 
project is the responsibility of Planning staff and the Building and Planning Coordinator.  
 
Dave Kimmer of ABD  Engineering  presented on behalf of the applicant . Kimmer noted that the property is the site of the  
former Malta Presbyterian  Church . Kimmer noted that the pro perty is approximately 2.5 acres and mostly undeveloped. 
Kimmer also noted that the project would feature a 20,000 square foot, 44 -unit apartment complex with a 1 and 2  
bedroom apartment layout. Kimmer noted that the property itself is within 3 zoning districts that influenced the layout 
and design of the proposed complex. Kimmer noted that the three zones are Open Space (OS) zone along Dunning 
Street, Downtown Parade Gro unds (DP -2) zone behind it, and the Downtown Mixed Use (DX -3) zone in the rear of the 
property.   
 
Kimmer stated that the property being in multiple zones dictated the design of the building. Kimmer noted that the front 
of the building in the DP -2 zone woul d be 2 stories and the rear of the building in the DX -3 zone would be 3 stories. 
Kimmer also stated that parking would be along the West side of the building, that the former church would remain on 
the property and would be converted into an amenity space,  and that the property would have an additional access at the 
rear of the property that would connect to the final stages of Kendall Way.  
 
Huizinga reviewed planning comments . Huizinga confirmed the property was tri -split zoned and only a driveway could be 
in the OS zone, with multi -family allowed in both  the DP -2 and DX -3 zones . Huizinga stated that the DP -2 zone required 
the front of building to look like a more traditional shop front  with the three -story  portion being allowed in the DX-3 zone . 
Huizinga informed the applicant that they needed t o change name  (Malta Lofts) because it was too similar to the Lofts at 
Saratoga Blvd. Huizinga also info rmed the applicant that the building  placement in the DX -3 zone  would need  to be  
placed  closer to Kendall Way in order to  meet FBC  requirements.  
 
Danny Sanders of Harris A. Sanders Architects noted that the placement of the building was intentional because  the 
design of the roof would not look right from Dunning Street if the rear portion of the building was moved closer to Kendall 
Way. Sanders noted that as it was proposed, the  roof line for the rear of the building looked  symmetric with the  front  roof 
line and the layout allowed for better circulation within the building.  
 
Huizinga noted that the current proposal was at concept  level , and that the applicant would provide more details with 
their next submission. Huizinga noted that the  rear section of build ing w ould need on street parking  along Kendall Way,  
that there would need to be  10-foot sidewalks, and that the parking would need to be altered to remove the two spots 
proposed within the OS zone and to push the parking in the rear further from Kendall Way with landscape screening between the lot and the road. Huizinga also noted that there would need to be on street parking and street trees along  
Kendall Way once it was fully designed , and that lighting will need to meet the Town’s lighting code.  
 
Huizinga also stated that the applicant would need to provide Will -Serve letters from Saratoga Water  Services and 
Saratoga County Sewer  District , a No Impact Letter from OPRHP, a traffic assessment, and that they would need to 
address her concerns about the plain -ness of the building design with architectural improvements.  
 
Doty spoke for Engineering  and stated that the project would require a SWPPP, the applicant would need to f inish off 
Kendall Way to FBC and Town Highway standards. Doty also stated that the applicant would need to provide a  site 
distance analysis  for both entrances , a traffic asses sment report , receive  approval from Saratoga County DPW  for the 
Dunning Street access , receive OPRHP sign off, and to confirm that the site layout met  fire code for aerial apparatus  
access and fire flow.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Grandeau asked what kind of apart ments would be built . 
 
Kimmer noted that market rate  would be built.  
 
Grandeau was also c oncerned about  the access onto Dunning Street . Grandeau felt that the additional entrance onto 
Dunning Street would make traffic worse than it already was, and stated that he preferred if the only new entrance for 
the property be on Kendall Way.  
 
Kimmer replied that he felt some of the traffic would be lessened by people using the Kendall access.  
 
Grandeau noted that he saw Kimmer’s point, but felt that an entrance on D unning Street would only create problems 
with the three entrances already on the North side of Dunning Street with the salon, restaurants, and the bank.  
 
Loewenstein asked if the rear section of the building could be more aesthetic  to make it less plain.  
 
Kimmer stated that he could look into that.  
 
Havens noted that he want ed an additional hydrant closer to Dunning Street  
 
Kimmer noted that there is a hydrant on Dunning Street and that one would be installed on Kendall Way.  
 
Havens also asked if the facility would be sprinklered.  
 
Kimmer stated that the entire facility including the attic would be sprinklered.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Chairperson Loewenstein opened the Public Hearing at 7:30  PM. 
 
John Perreault of 20 Woodmint  Place asked if the B oard felt the proposal was appropriate for the location.  
 
Everhart stated that the Board d id not have the authority to make a decision  regarding the project. Everhart added that  
the Public Hearing is for the public to make comments, but that Malta zoning law included specific design details that 
stood in the place of Planning Board review. Everhart stated that what happened under FBC projects was that they were 
presented at a Planning Board meeting, that the applicant would listen to co mments from the Board regarding the 
project, and that a Public Hearing is held to allow the public to make comments, but that the project is approved 
administratively if the project met Form Based Code (FBC) requirements.   
 
Rick Handley of 6 Danbury Drive wanted to know where any recreation  facilities  would be onsite (amenities), wanted to 
know if the Fire Department (FD) could access the third floor of the building if the parking lot were full  and was concerned 
about FD acce ss on the East side of the building if it  were moved closer to road.  
 Lawrence Lieberman  of 1 May Apple  Way felt that the already approved development at 108 Dunning and current 
proposal before the Board was detrimental to the wildlife . Lieberman also  want ed to know how expensive apartments 
would be,  and asked what “market -rate” was. Lieberman wanted to know if the apartments would be affordable to 
working people as he felt there was a serious need for more housing that was affordable, not luxury housing . Lieberman 
also wanted to know if the chu rch could be changed since  it was historic . Lieberman also wanted to know if the proposal 
to connect the remainder of Kendall Way to the section by  CVS would go through with the property dispute regarding the 
road. Li eberman also asked  how much traffic would be generated by the project on Dunning as it was small road.  
 
Lieberman also asked about the Environmental Assessment that was required for the project and was concerned that 
the project would displace wildlife and felt that based on the language in the Environmental Assessment questionnaire, 
the project was in violation of established code.  
 
Jane Chasin  of 64 Admirals Way was concerned about the traffic amount and density created by the approval of the 
project. Chasin felt that the amount of development that was occurring in Malta was overwhelming to local schools and 
asked if the proposed building could be designed more aesthetically and potentially to eliminate the third story of the 
rear portion of th e building. Chasin felt that there was already too much development in Malta without the proposed 
project being approved.  
 
Dana Noble of 56 May Apple  Way want ed to see a map with the current proposal, the already approved Dunning Place 
development, the pro posed State Police  barracks  and what could possibly go across the street from 108 Dunning Street 
on one map to show how much development would be in the area between 118 Dunning and the Partridge Drum 
residential neighborhood if the project were approved.  Noble asked the Board who was looking at the total impact to 
Dunning Street with the new developments going in.  
 
Nancy De Nofio of 54 Wineberry Lane  was concerned that the proposed amount of parking  for the apartment complex  
was not enough . DeNofio was also concerned about fire truck access  to the West side of the building if the parking lot 
was full and was worried about congestion in the parking lot . DeNofio also did  not like the proposed color  scheme  for the 
building and suggested the de veloper use more rustic colors  instead. DeNofio was  concerned with how the historic 
church was going to stand out from the proposed building and was worried that the proposed stormwater  management 
system would need to be quite large due to existing stormwa ter issues and failures to keep the area dry during storms.  
 
DeNofio added that she felt the applicant could build there if they desired, but that she wanted them to reconsider the 
proposal  to please the community.  
 
Susan Nutt all of 16 May Apple Way felt that the development would create too much traffic for Dunning Street with the 
proposed State Police Barracks and the eventual GlobalFoundries expansion. Nuttall also asked if there were existing 
entrances to access the site or if the y needed to be created.  
 
Kimmer stated that there were two entrances for the site, one on Dunning Street and one on Kendall Way.  
 
Nuttall asked what data would be used for the traffic study.  
 
Doty noted that with the current proposal for the project, the n umber of units (44) may, for example,  render an average of 
28 PM Peak Hour trips. Doty also noted that since the number of PM Peak Hour trips was under 100 trips, the project 
would require a Traffic Assessment and not a Traffic Study. Doty also stated that  the data provided by the applicant 
would be submitted to his firm for review.  
 
Nuttall  asked if the assessment would  include other development in area?  
 
Doty stated that the assessment would only take into account other intersections in the area if the nu mber of average 
generated trips were over 100 trips. Doty added that since Malta had studied traffic extensively in town, the traffic 
network was part of the Town -wide Generic Environmental Impact Statement (GEIS) and that proposals were subject to 
impact fees that would be paid to the Town to improve transportation infrastructure in Malta. Doty noted that since the 
town realized that development impacted the entire town, they have identified what infrastructure improvements were 
necessary to support develo pment in Malta just like every other project that was proposed in Malta. Doty added that even 
though an individual Traffic Impact Study was not being completed for the Dunning Street project, the consideration of 
impacts associated with the Dunning Street project and other proposals have been considered as part of the development plan for the transportation network in Malta.  
 
Linda Noble of 56 May Apple  Way felt that the Route 9 -Dunning Street Roundabout wouldn’t be able to adequately 
handle the traffic tha t would be created by the 118 Dunning project and other future projects in the area. Noble also 
added that when she recently returned from vacation, there was 4 -6” of water that she had to drive through on Partridge 
Drum and felt that the increased develop ment in the area was causing flooding and runoff that had never happened in 
the time that she had lived in the area. Noble added that she felt the issues caused by the increased flooding and runoff 
needed to be addressed before everyone was negatively impa cted by it.  
 
Raymond Hladik of 126 Cramer Road asked what the Stormwater Recharge rate was for the Stormwater pond that would 
be built and asked if there were any wetlands onsite.  
 
Doty noted for Hladik that the detailed information regarding stormwater would not be submitted until later in the 
process since the project in its current form was only a concept level submission.  
 
Hladik asked if there would be a second Public Hearing for the project in order for the public to see more details.  
 
Loewenstein stated that there would not be any other Pub lic Hearings for the project. Loewenstein added that Planning 
staff would administratively approve the project and that the Board would not have any further input beyond making 
comments.  
 
Hladik asked if the Board’s hands were tied regarding the outcome of  the project.  
 
Everhart  stated that the Planning Board did not have any formal decision -making  abilities with  Form Based Code 
projects.  
 
Hladik asked if the Board could only make the developer abide by the rules of the Form Based Code.  
 
Loewenstein  stated that the developer was required to abide by all rules set in place but that the Planning Board was not 
the deciding body on the outcome of the project.  
 
John Riddick of 2 Jean Lane stated that he appreciated what the Planning Board did a nd that he felt the zoning in Malta 
made the decision -making process easier in some cases but noted that he felt things still could get missed. Riddick 
noted that he felt more consideration should be given to pedestrians and cyclists in the decision -making  process with 
increased development. Riddick stated that currently the Route 9 -Dunning Street roundabout was already dangerous for 
pedestrians and wanted the Board to step in if possible and find a way to make proposed expansion of Kendall Way safer  
for pe destrians and cyclists  with a bike path that allowed them to access Price Chopper and other services nearby safely.  
 
Joan Salv i of 1 May Apple  Way was concerned with drainage and infiltration in the nearby area with increased 
development. Salvi stated that she wanted as many trees as possible to remain in order to allow for natural stormwater 
management. Salvi also felt that the cutting of trees  for the increased development negatively affected the aesthetic of 
neighborhood . Salvi also felt the development would produce too much traffic in order to meet the requirements of the 
Environmental Assessment Form . Salvi felt that the Board wasn’t consid ering the bigger picture and was only focusing on 
the 118 Dunning project itself. Salvi also felt that just because a project can be built, doesn’t mean it should be built and  
that the Form Based Code (FBC) needed to be reevaluated because what was going o n in Malta in her opinion was 
destroying one of the most beautiful towns in Saratoga County.   
 
Nancy DeNofio  of 54 Wineberry  stated that when the Traffic Study for 108 Dunning was completed, it estimated 4081 
cars on the road during the AM and PM Peak Hour s. DeNofio also stated that Dunning Street (County Route 108) could 
not be expanded due to the geography of the area and felt that the 118 Dunning project would add too much traffic to a 
road that was already overused in her opinion. DeNofio was also conce rned about pedestrian safety and agreed with 
Salvi that just because something could be built didn’t necessitate that it should be built.  
 
Lawrence Lieberman  of 1 May Apple Way cited  the environmental assessment form (EAF) and was concern ed that the 
118 Du nning Project was a detriment because it created  significantly more traffic  above the current level . Lieberman 
also cited the EAF  and noted that he felt the 118 Dunning project negatively affected the aesthetic  resources  of the area  
with the felling of trees for the project and would decrease the beauty of Luther Forest  and displace wildlife.   
Everhart asked Kimmer if he felt he had direction from the Board.  
 
Kimmer noted that  he felt like he received direction. Kimmer also noted for the public that  the Kendall Way expansion 
would happen, that there would be on-street parking  on Kendall with a  10-foot sidewalk connecting to  the existi ng 
sidewalk  at the Catskill Hudson Bank. Kimmer also noted that the historic  church on the Southwest of property  would  be 
renovated, that there would be 50%+ greenspace  onsite , that the Northwest area of the property would be the 
Stormwater Management  Area and that all stormwater would be captured  and remain  onsite. Kimmer added that he 
wanted the site to look as nice as possible and to not have negative impacts on neighbors.  
 
24-14, 128 -132 Cramer Road, Special Use Permit                   Public Hearing  
 
Ed M elvin represented Saratoga Holdings  for the proposal. Melvin stated that that he was  proposing homes on three (3) 
lots that were part of the original Cramer Hills subdivision .  He plans  to build custom homes with additional living space  
as in -law apartments . Melvin added that the homes would  be designed to look like  single family homes and not duplexes. 
Melvin noted that he wanted to design the homes similar to his own home where his mother had her own “wing” in the 
house with separ ate utilities for his mother.  
 
Huizinga spoke for Planning. Huizinga stated that the project is located  at 128 -132 Cramer Road,  the three lots are part 
of the original Cramer Hills Subdivision, and that the zoning is R-1. Huizinga added that in the R -1 a two-family home is 
allowed with a Special Use Permit (SUP) granted by the Planning Board. Huizinga felt that SEQRA is consistent with the 
Town-Wide GEIS and that no further  environmental  review is needed. Huizinga stated that the Fire Department had no 
concerns with the project. , and that NYS building code would dictate the septic size and well flow rate for each property. 
Huizinga directed the Board to review the 10 Special Use Permit Criteria outl ined in her Staff Review when making a 
decision about the project.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
Grandeau wanted to know if there was enough water  to sufficiently service the properties given the historical and 
ongoing water issues that were present in the neighborho od. 
 
Melvin  noted that he was not aware of issues whether or not there is  an adequate  supply of water or not.  
 
Grandeau noted that he was concerned since he was in the water business and since he had customers in the 
neighborhood who had experienced issues in the past.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Chairperson Loewenstein opened the Public Hearing at 8:15  PM. 
 
Keith  Ricciardone of  124 Cramer  Road was  concerned with there being enough water in area  for the project  since h e had 
to relocate his well pump closer to the bottom of the well over the last 30 years with the development of the Cramer Hills 
Subdivision.  
 
John Riddick of 2 Jean Lane was concerned with water also because of multiple people in  the area having issues in the 
past. Riddick stated t hat one of his neighbors had to spend $15,000 to have their water system upgraded in order to 
provide them with adequate drinking water. Riddick also asked if the project were approved, would there be separate 
driveways, wells and septic systems for each d welling unit. Riddick felt that if so much more water would need be taken 
from the already stressed aquifer, there would be major issues for other neighbors in the area.  
 
Raymond  Hladik of 126 Cramer Road stated that he was against the proposal and had a  37-signature petition from 
neighbors who also were against the proposal. Hladik stated that he felt the proposed homes would not look like what 
they were being proposed as and felt like the three (3) two -family homes were wrong for the neighborhood because  it was 
zoned as R -1, single -family residential. Hladik stated that he was concerned with property value loss as well as being 
concerned about the ability of the aquifer to be able to provide enough water to the new homes in addition to the existing 
homes that it already struggles to provide for. Hladik also was concerned with the additional traffic that would be created 
on the road, what would happen after the original owners sold the homes (if they would become rental units), and was concerned with the we tlands that he claimed existed on one of the lots.  
 
Hladik gave the petition against the project to Huizinga for the record and Huizinga noted for the Board that the petition 
claimed that the project is to build “Low Income Duplexes” on the properties whe n the proposal is for market -rate single -
family homes with in -law apartments.  
 
Kathy D ocherty of 122 Cramer  Road  stated that she received a copy of the application and stated that she did not want 
2-family homes to be built on the properties. Docherty stated that she approved of 3 single -family homes with in -law 
suites, but not 2 family homes.  
 
Christie  Lee Ryan of 115 Cramer Road stated that she was confused by Melvin’s presentation because it conflicted with 
the notice that she received in th e mail. Ryan stated that the notice she received stated that there would be “affordable 
housing duplexes” proposed to be built at 128 -132 Cramer instead of single -family homes with in -law suites as Melvin 
proposed. Ryan also stated that she was concerned a bout the eventual outcome of the homes since she felt it was odd 
that someone would place their mother or family they were taking care of on a separate electrical meter or septic. Ryan 
felt that the homes would eventually turn into duplexes as time went on . Ryan also stated that she w anted the Planning 
Board to look over the project carefully for everyone’s sake and noted that she didn’t know there were water issues in the 
area in addition to the issues she had down the street. Ryan noted that she was conce rned for her neighbors and wanted 
the Board to carefully consider them when making a decision.  
 
Daniel Polli of 4 little Drive stated that he had run out of water 2 times in the 3 years that he lived in his home.  Polli also 
noted that he needed to purchase  an overly -sophisticated water treatment system for his home in order to have 
adequate water. Polli stated that he had no issues with someone wanting to develop their property, but was confused 
why someone would want to build homes with accessory dwelling units  (ADU)  in the R -1 zone and limit their ability to sell 
them in the future.  Polli also felt that the design of the proposed homes was beyond a typical home with an ADU and 
thought it didn’t fit with the character of the neighborhood. Polli asked what the criteria was when considering a Special 
Use Permit (SUP) and felt Melvin sho uld be required to prove why a SUP was necessary and identify a hardship that he 
was facing by making his case to the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) before being granted an SUP. Polli was also 
concerned that granting the SUP would create a precedent in the neighborhood that would pave the way for more 
projects like it on the remaining vacant lands on Cramer Road.  
 
Lawrence Lieberman  of 1 May Apple  Way stated that he wanted the Planning Board meeting live -streamed like Town 
Board meetings.  
 
Loewenstein  thanke d Lieberman for his comment and reminded him that live -streaming meetings wasn’t a topic of 
discussion for the meeting.  
 
Lieberman stated that it was an important fact in his opinion to be brought up.  
 
Grandeau stated that Mr. Lieberman should voice his concerns to the Town Board.  
 
Lieberman stated that people wanted to know what was going on in town.  
 
Loewenstein stated that his concern was duly noted.  
 
Jen Andreadakis  of 126 Cramer Road wanted to know what would happen next, Andreadakis was concerned th at the 
homes would eventually be rented out and that she did not want different transient people moving in that didn’t care 
about the property who wouldn’t take pride in or respect for it.  
 
Michael Ryan of 115 Cramer Road wanted to know why the letter he received from Planning stated “3 Proposed Low 
Income, Affordable Duplexes” when the presentation was for single family homes with in -law suites.  
 
Huizinga asked Ryan if she could read the letter that he received. Huizinga s tated that the Planning Department did not 
send out any correspondence stating that the presentation would be for low -income housing. Huizinga added that the 
letter that Ryan received was a reprint of the original notice that was sent to abutting neighbors  of the project property 
only with an additional map stapled to the back. Huizinga noted that the attached map depicted an outlined area of the 
three properties under review with a text box pointing to the site reading “3 Proposed Low Income, Affordable Du plexes.”  Huizinga stated for the record that the Planning Department notice mailed to abutting residents did not describ e the 
project as “low income”  but that the project is for two -family residents.  Huizinga asked  to see what notice the residents 
were r eferring to , that someone else not affiliated with the Town of Malta sent out to people.  She also noted that the map 
was not made by the Town and was not included with the official  neighbor notice that was mailed certified to abutting 
residents.  
 
Ryan also  asked if there would be water available in the future since he was told it would cost around $100,000 to be 
added to the water district and that it would end at Edith Lane.  Ryan also stated that he wanted the neighborhood to 
remain single -family only.  
 
Huizinga stated that since the Town had yet to own the water district to which Ryan was referring, she could not speak to 
what the future of that situation was.  
 
Jen Andreadak is of 126 Cramer Road wanted to see actual renderings of the proposed homes . Andreadakis wanted to 
know what the proposed homes would actually look like , if the properties would be under one deed or multiple, and how 
busy the properties would be because sh e was concerned with them causing issues for children and pets. Andreadakis 
also stated that she would like to see the setbacks and septic systems for the properties prior to them being approved.  
 
Raymond Hladik of 126 Cramer Road asked if there would be a dditional Public Hearings after the current one was 
closed.  
 
Everhart  stated for Hladik that a decision to move forward or to request more information would be made after the Public 
Hearing . 
 
Derek Solek of 36 Little  Drive was  worried about what the proposal will look like at the end of the project and was 
concerned about the site distance from Edith Lane after the homes were built.  
 
Loewenstein asked Melvin to clarify some of the confusion and try to answer the questions and c oncerns of the Board 
and the public.  Loewenstein specifically asked what Melvin was going to do about the water concerns.  
 
Melvin stated that he preferred that water would come down the road but that the cost was infeasible. Melvin also stated 
that he woul d be building nice homes, not low -income, as to discourage “riff -raff” in the neighborhood and that they 
would be high -end homes. Melvin added that he would provide plans to the Board prior to expecting an approval from 
them.  
 
Loewenstein asked if each home would have one driveway.  
 
Melvin stated that one driveway per home would be  preferred  from a traffic standpoint and did  not think there would be 
any issues with site distance from an engineering standpoint . 
 
Kathy Docherty of 122 Cramer Road stated th at she was  worried about the proposed homes being two-family homes and 
did not think that the homes would  be single -family with in -law apartment s. Docherty stated that she did  not want two 
separate entrances because it would , in her mind , make two separate  residences and not just an attached apartment  
that would only have access via the main home. Docherty was also concerned that if the home was resold, it would be 
marketed as two -family.  
 
Huizinga stated that the SUP allowed for two -family dwellings with separate entrances in the R -1 zone.  
 
Docherty asked if the home could be rented to anyone?  
 
Huizinga stated that the home could be rented to anyone.  
 
Docherty stated that she did not approve of a two -family home and asked the Board to treat the proposed homes as 
single -family homes with in -law apartments that would not have a separate entrance.  
 
Daniel Polli of 4 Little Drive  wanted to kno w if there were  wetlands onsite and want ed them to be taken care of properly 
and addressed by the Board. Polli also asked if the Public Hearing could be left open until a later date.  Prior to moving forward, Loewenstein asked if the Board wanted to leave the Public Hearing open or if they wanted to 
move forward to consideration and a vote.  
 
Everhart suggested that if the Board wanted to request additional information from the applicant, it may make sense to 
leave the Public Hearing open. Everhart added for the public that regardless of the Board’s decision with the Public 
Hearing, it was currently pau sed and the Board would be considering next steps. Everhart stated that since the Public 
Hearing was paused, the public had to refrain from commenting until the Board finished their discussion.  
 
Havens asked where the nearest hydrant was.  
 
Melvin  stated th at it was 300 yards to the East down Cramer Road . Melvin added that from his understanding of the local 
geography, there were wetlands between the hydrant and the building site. Melvin noted that he had yet to hire an 
engineer to determine what would be ne cessary to install an additional hydrant with the nearby wetlands blocking the 
path.  
 
Havens stated that to his knowledge it was required by NYS fire code that a hydrant be installed within 400 feet of new 
construction and wanted Melvin to agree to constru ct one prior to project approval.  
 
Prior to moving forward with Board review, Everhart noted for clarification that if Melvin were only proposing single -family 
homes, he wouldn’t be before the Planning Board and would apply for a regular building permit to  be reviewed and 
approved only by a Building Inspector to ensure that the proposed use followed all applicable code , zoning , and any other 
requirements  like any other developer would.  
 
Everhart also stated for the record that when someone makes a presentation for a Special Use Permit, they are not 
asking for a variance from the zoning code, they are asking for a use that was deemed by the Town Board as harmonious 
with the zone district i t would be in. Everhart noted that the Town Board found as a matter of law that in general a two-
family use in the R -1 zoning district is compliant with the zoning code and harmonious with the zone. Everhart added that 
what the Planning Board did when they  applied their test for a Special Use Permit, they were considering whether or not 
there was something specific about any of the concerns arise because of the particular location or particular 
circumstances. Everhart noted that the Board is not considering  what the structure would look like, just like the Board 
wouldn’t consider what the neighboring single -family structures would look like. Everhart stated that the Planning Board 
is considering the two-family use. Everhart then asked Huizinga to confirm if what was being proposed was defined as 
two-family or single -family with an in -law apartment or if they were the same thing.  
 
Huizinga confirmed that they were the same thing and considered as a two-family home.  
 
Everhart continued and stated that whether o r not a two-family home or a single -family home with an in -law apartment 
were considered two different things in real life, they were considered the same thing under the Malta Zoning Code, and 
what was being sought was a Special Use Permit for a duplex sty le use. Everhart wanted to remind the Board where they 
were in the process  and stated that they would be looking at the 10 SUP Criteria and evaluating if there is any 
information that had bearing on the answers to the criteria, the Board should ask the app licant to supplement their 
application.  
 
Loewenstein asked if the Board was ready to make a decision or keep the Public Hearing  open  
 
Grandeau wanted to know if there was enough water on each lot  for a two -family home without negatively affecting 
neighbors  and asked Melvin if he would put in wells  prior to approval . 
 
Melvin  stated that he would consider putting in  wells prior to  constructing the homes . 
 
Grandeau  stated that he felt he could not vote unless he knew if there was enough water or not . 
 
Everhart  asked Engineering if the applicant could determine if there was a sufficient enough quantity of water for each lot 
without negatively impacting neighbors.  
 
Doty stated that a test well could be d rilled to determine how much water was available. Doty adde d that in municipal 
water supply development, a test well was exactly what would be done to confirm if enough water was available. Doty added that building code required a minimum amount of flow in order to support a building onsite. Doty felt that given 
the concerns and knowledge of what had happened on other neighboring parcels with regards to water quantity, it may 
be wise for the Board and the developer to know if there was even enough water to support a single -family home since a 
two-family home would use more water than a single -family home potentially.  
 
Melvin  stated that he did not know about the water issues  in the area prior to making the presentation.  
 
Loewenstein  asked Huizinga  if a minimum amount of water was required prior to Building Permit issuance.  
 
Huizinga  stated that the Building Department would require a well to provide enough water prior to issuance.  
 
Everhart asked if test wells would be required.  
 
Huizinga  stated that test wells would be required on each parcel.  
 
Everhart asked if the results would be based on  quantitative or qualitative  data.  
 
Huizinga defer red to Code Enforcement  because she did not know the answer to Everhart’s question. Huizinga added 
that the well system and septic system would need to be full y engineered with plans that wells have  adequate flow rate.  
 
Melvin  asked if that happened in the rest of the Cramer Hills Subdivision  prior to those homes being built.  
 
Everhart  stated that she did not know the answer to that question.  
 
Doty  stated that since the Board was hearing things from both neighbors and a water treatment professional (Grandeau) 
it made sense to request that test wells be dug to confirm if there was enough  and high enough quality water or not.  
 
Loew enstein asked if the Board wanted to keep the Public Hearing open or not.  
 
Mazza asked if the applicant wanted to build single -family homes instead, would they be before the Planning Board.  
 
Huizinga  restated tha t no presentation to the Board would be required and the applicant would need to provide 
percolation and flow tests to Code Enforcement prior to Building Permit issuance. Huizinga added that the Board had 
purview over the water and stated that the Board co uld request test wells if they felt it was necessary.  
 
Grandeau stated that he wanted test wells  showing sufficient quantity and quality  prior to approval.  
 
Everhart asked if the Board wanted  test wells prior to action  even though other homes in the neighb orhood did not need 
to go through the Planning Board to receive Building Permits  and of the Board wanted to keep the Public Hearing open  or 
if they wanted to move forward with the condition that a Building Permit would  not be issued  unless  there was suffic ient 
water to the  proposed  homes.  
 
Grandeau want ed to know the available water quantity and quality prior to him voting.  
 
Mazza asked if the test wells were drilled and the necessary data was provided, would everything else would fall into 
place.  
 
Grandeau confirmed Mazza’s question as correct as the water quality professional in the room.  
 
Havens also stated that he was concerned about water.  
 
Loewenstein asked if the Board wanted to keep the Public Hearing open.  
 
Everhart stated that the Public Hearing could be left open but the Board would need to request additional info rmation  
and allow people to submit comments in written  form to the Board  going forward. Everhart added for the record that 
since the Planning Board Agenda could change without notice due to unintentional unforeseen circumstances , there was 
really no feasible way to know  when the application would be before the Planning Board again. Everhart suggested that the public should call the Planning Department to con firm if the application would be presented at an upcoming meeting 
or not.  
 
Loewenstein asked if there were any other concerns prior to moving forward.  
 
Melvin  interjected and asked if he were to propose a single -family home for each site, would he need to go before the 
Planning Board.  
 
Loewenstein, Everhart, and Huizinga stated that he would not need to go before the Board and would only need a 
Building Permit.  
 
Everhart stated for Loewenstein that her notes stated the following concerns from the public:  the water quality and 
quantity concerns, whether there were wetlands  onsite or not , the design aesthetics  of the proposed homes , traffic and 
site distance  from the properties , if there would be shared driveways or not, if the homes would be two separate 
residences or one large residence with an in -law apartment (no distinction in zoning code and a true duplex could be 
approved with the Board’s decision). Everhart added that if there were any other concerns from the Board, they may be 
able to be addressed w ith a question for the applicant at the meeting or in writing at a later date instead of at the next 
meeting.  
 
Loewenstein asked if the Board had any other concerns.  
 
No other concerns were brought up.  
 
Loewenstein left the public hearing open  until a late r date.  
 
Huizinga noted for the public that the Planning Department would not be re -notifying anyone via mail of the 128 -132 
Cramer Road proposal returning to the Planning Board. Huizinga added that if the public wanted to know when the 
proposal would be b efore the Board again, they needed to pay attention to the website since the Planning Board Agenda 
would be posted to the website no later than the Friday prior to the next upcoming meeting.  Huizinga added that the 
Planning Board Meeting was generally the fourth (4th) Tuesday of the month and that there was a calendar on the 
website showcasing upcoming events and meetings.  
 
Planning Board Business  
 
No motion was made to accept the June 23, 2024 Planning Board Meeting Minutes due to a lack of voting members 
present. The vote for the approval of the June 23, 2024 Planning Board Meeting Minutes was tabled until a later date.  
 
Meeting Adjournment  
 
Stephen Grandeau  MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct  of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Jean Loewenstein , motion carried unanimously at 9:07 PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted by,  
 
 
 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary  
Planning Technicia n 