
Hall, with Co -Chairperson, Jean Lowenstein  presiding:  
 
Present:   
 
 Stephen Grandeau   
 Dwight Havens   
 William Smith   
 Frank Mazza   
 Jean Loewenstein   
 Ronald Bormann   
 Leejun Taylor   
 Kyle Kordich   
  
Absent:     
 
John Viola   
 
Correspondence:  All correspondence is on file.  
 
 
Chairperson Loewenstein  read the following agenda into the minutes:  
 
 
 
 
 
Project #  Project Name  Project Type  
23-17 Rainville (210 Ruhle Road South)  Extension of Approval (Minor SD & LLA)  
24-05 The Lofts at Saratoga Village Blvd. Club House  FBC Project Plan  Amendment   
 
 
 
 
 
Chairperson Loewenstein  elevated William Smith  to a full voting member.  
 
 
 23-17, Rainville , Minor Subdivision and Lot Line Adjustment (Extension of Approval)       
 
Maria Rainville  presented and  requested a 90-day extension for her project.  Rainville noted for the Board that the delay 
associated with the project related to obtaining utilities for the proposed parce ls. 
 
Huizinga noted  for the Board  that the project was originally  approved on October 24,  2023. Huizinga also noted that the 
applicant was waiting on Water approval from the Clifton Park Water Authority and Sewer approval  from the Saratoga 
County Sewer District. Huizinga also stated that the Rainville’s still  needed to satisfy Planning requirements  that were 
imposed during their original approval . Huizinga noted if an additional extension was needed, the  Rainville’s  would need 
to apply for an extension by Friday June 28, 2024 to be on the July Agenda.  
 
Loewenstein asked Huizinga if the applicant was waiting on Will Serve Letters for Water and Sewer.  
 
Huizinga confirmed that the applicant was awaiting Will Serve Letters and permission from the Water and Sewer 
companies to connect to their lines and that Planning wouldn’t sign off on Final Plans until all requested conditions had 
been met for the project.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
No comments from the Board.  
 
Resolution #202 4 – 05 
 
MOTION  by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich  to resolve that the Malta Planning Board on the 26th day of  
March , 2024  approves a 90 -day Extension of Approval for Project #2 3-17 Rainville, Minor Subdivision and Lot Line 
Adjustment  beyond the present deadline of April 24, 2024, extending the expiration date to  July 23, 2024.  
 
VOTE:    
 
Kyle Kordich – YES; Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES;  
Frank Mazza – YES; Dwight Havens – YES; William Smith – YES; Jean Loewenstein – YES 
 
Motion CARRIED 7-0 
 
24-05, The Lofts at Saratoga Village Blvd. Club house , Form Based Code Project Plan Amendment                Public Hearing  
 
Robert Hayes p resented . Hayes noted that with the recent expansion of the Lofts Phase 2, tenants required more space 
in the onsite exercise facility due to crowding. Hayes also noted that he desired to consolidate the outdoor amenity space 
by constructing an attached covered pat io area with seating, a fireplace, and grills for tenants.  
 
Hayes noted that the proposed exercise room would be approximately 1000 SF and that the outdoor patio would be 
approximately 950 SF. Hayes noted for the Board that initially there was an issue wit h the placement of the expansion 
due to an onsite County Sewer Easement. Hayes stated that he worked with County Sewer and that they gave him 
permission to build the expansion that would minimally encroach upon the Easement.  
 
Huizinga noted that a Public H earing was required for the project and that the Board could only comment on the project 
given that it was a Form Based Code (FBC) project . Huizinga added that FBC projects only required Administrative 
Approval from the Building and Planning Coordinator.  Huizinga also noted that Hayes answered all of her questions and 
addressed her concerns with the construction of the addition . Huizinga detailed that her concerns regarding the 
expansion pertained to the foundation wall being built within the sewer easement  and that the wall itself would be 9 feet 
deep instead of 4 feet deep.  
 
Huizinga noted that the reason for the deeper foundation wall was a request made by Saratoga County Sewer. Huizinga 
stated that the deeper foundation wall would be at the same level a s the sewer main itself and the wall would better 
withstand a sewer main break if one were to occur.  Huizinga added that Hayes also corrected the issue originally listed 
on the plans denoting the sewer easement as belonging to the Town  and the County when it in fact was only owned by 
the County . Huizinga added that the grills would need to be cleared by Code Enforcement and the Fire Department . Hayes noted that he planned to work with Planning and the Project Architect with regards to that concern when the time 
came.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION  
 
No comments from the Board.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Loewenstein opened the Public Hearing  at 6:40  PM. 
 
Shawn Flynn spoke for the R ound Lake Fire Department  and stated that he was concerned with fires being caused by  the 
grills  since they would be under a roof . Flynn stated that he was concerned that a fire could go into the soffit of the roof 
and create a larger fire.  
 
Hayes stated that there would be fire s uppression systems for the grills . 
 
Loewenstein closed the Public Hearing  at 6:41  PM. 
 
Planning Board Business  
 
MOTION by Dwight Havens  SECONDED  by Kyle Kordich  to accept the December 19, 2023  minutes.  
 
VOTE:  
 
Kyle Kordich – YES; Stephen Grandeau  – ABSTAIN ; Ronald Bormann  – ABSTAIN ; Frank Mazza  – ABSTAIN  
Dwight Havens – YES; William Smith – YES; Leejun Taylor – YES; Jean Loewenstein  - YES  
 
Motion CARRIED, 5 Yes, and 3 Abstentions.  
 
MOTION by Stephen Grandeau  SECONDED  by Frank Mazza  to accept the February 27, 2024  minutes.  
 
VOTE:  
 
Kyle Kordich - ABSTAIN ; Stephen Grandeau  – YES; Ronald Bormann  – YES; Frank Mazza  – YES 
Dwight Havens – YES; William Smith – YES; Leejun Taylor – ABSTAIN ; Jean Loewenstein  - YES  
 
Motion CARRIED, 6 Yes, and 2 Abstention s. 
 
Huizinga noted the preliminary agenda for the April 23, 2024 meeting.  
 
Meeting Adjournment  
 
Stephen Grandeau  MOTIONED  to adjourn the meeting to the next regular meeting or any other meeting necessary for the 
conduct  of the Planning Board, SECONDED  by Frank Mazza , motion carried unanimously at 6:47  PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted by,  
 
 
 
David E. Jaeger, Jr.  
Planning Board Secretary  
Planning Technicia n 